My Baby's Daddy is a 2004 comedy film, directed by Cheryl Dunye.Childhood friends Lonnie (Eddie Griffin), Dominic (Michael Imperioli), and G (Anthony Anderson) have a rude awakening when they find out their girlfriends are pregnant. Lonnie and G have sons, Carver and Bruce-Leroy, and Dominic has a daughter, Jasmine.Each have their own unique set of problems; Lonnie's girlfriend Rolonda (Paula Jai Parker) is more interested in partying than being a mother; Dominic discovers that his girlfriend Nia (Joanna Bacalso) is a lesbian and has fallen in love with her midwife; while G, an aspiring boxer, is unable to fully commit to his girlfriend XiXi (Bai Ling).Throughout the movie, all three men, particularly G and Dominic, are determined to continue their normal way of living and be fathers at the same time. Lonnie is a garbageman among other part-time jobs, G works in the store his girlfriend's family runs, and Dominic is managing a pair of white rappers.After they momentarily lose their kids during a party they threw, they realize how much their kids depend on them, and gradually become responsible fathers. Lonnie falls in love with a woman from a Mommy and Me class named Brandy who he treats badly on date, due to believing she wouldn't the real him. Dominic's ex-girlfriend reveals she's a lesbian and feels he is too involved in his career to ever be a father. G's cousin No Good (Method Man) robs a store and his girlfriend feels he was in on it and takes Bruce-Leroy away from him.After all three are given a talking to by Lonnie's Uncle Virgil, they realize how much they love their kids and what they have to do. Lonnie apologizes to Brandy, but he stays true to himself, and she forgives him, then he storms to his ex-girlfriend's house and takes Carver with him, while criticizing her for having a baby to get child support payments, and knocks out her cousin "Big Swoll". Dominic goes to his ex-girlfriend and tells her how much he loves Jasmine and how he needs to be a part of her life. G's girlfriend's father tells him a story of being in the Triads before he had his daughter and realized how much his family meant to him, leading to G proposing to his girlfriend.At the end of the movie it is revealed that Lonnie and Brandy are married with 2 children. Lonnie has also achieved his dream of becoming a successful inventor; Dominic started a children's music album; and G and his father-in-law open a martial arts/boxing studio called The Mo Fo Dojo. No Good, after learning of organic foods, goes on to become a successful food show personality called The Organic Gangster. They lastly toast to great babies' daddies. In the end, they realize that three little babies turned them into three grown men.Tagline: They're going from players to playtime.