Seed of Chucky is a 2004 American supernatural comedy slasher film and the fifth installment of the Child's Play series. The film was written and directed by Don Mancini, who created Child's Play film and has written all of the films in the series. With this entry, Mancini marked his directorial debut.Six years after the events of the previous film, Glen, the kind and benevolent son of Chucky and Tiffany, has a nightmare in which he murders a little girl's parents. In reality, he is living a life of embarrassment and abuse as a ventriloquist's dummy. After being forced to perform and locked inside a cage, Glen sees Chucky and Tiffany on TV and realizes that he is their son.Desperate to know his parents, Glen tracks Chucky and Tiffany down to Hollywood, where they are first shown killing a man who is dressed as Santa Claus for a movie. He manages to escape his abusive owner, hitch a ride on a truck, and mail himself in a box to California. He wakes up in the prop room of Jennifer Tilly's horror film, including the Chucky and Tiffany dolls. Glen uses a voodoo amulet to bring them back to life. When Chucky (voice of Brad Dourif) finds out that Glen is his child, he faints. However, Tiffany (voice of Jennifer Tilly) is delighted and hugs her child. Chucky and Tiffany argue over whether Glen is a boy or a girl, due to his lack of genitals (though he is evidently a male). Chucky decides to continue labeling him as a boy, while Tiffany labels him as a girl, calling him "Glenda."



Rapper Redman, appears as himself

When a puppeteer Tony Gardner begins taking Tiffany apart, she and Chucky decapitate him with a piano wire, leaving Glen shocked and horrified. Jennifer Tilly sees the beheaded body and calls the police. Chucky, Tiffany, and Glen ride home with her in a limousine. Glen, having witnessed his mom and dad kill the puppeteer, asks them why they murder others, as he feels that violence is bad. Chucky replies that it helps them to relax, but Tiffany, feeling parental responsibility, agrees and forces Chucky to join her in an attempt to stop killing people for the sake of their son. Chucky only pretends to agree, crossing his fingers behind his back hoping to get Tiffany to shut up.Jennifer tries to get a role as the Virgin Mary in Redman's directorial debut, but after he tells her that she isn't right for the part, she invites him over to her house. Chucky and Tiffany make plans to transfer their souls into Redman and Jennifer. Jennifer and Redman start to make love, only for Tiffany to knock them out. While they are unconscious, Tiffany inseminates Jennifer with Chucky's semen.Chucky leaves and takes Glen with him. After driving Britney Spears' car off the road, killing her, they proceed to go to a photographer's darkroom. The photographer, Pete Peters (John Waters), had taken pictures of Tilly kissing Redman, and of Chucky masturbating. When Peters turns around, he notices Chucky is gone. Peters slowly walks around his lab looking for Chucky, who was hiding on a shelf. As Chucky was about to plan his attack, Glen tries to warn Peters that Chucky will kill him, only for Peters to bump into a shelf, causing a jar of acid to fall into his head and accidentally kill himself. Chucky, overjoyed with pride, believes Glen did this on purpose and takes a picture to celebrate, much to Glen's and Tiffany's dismay.Jennifer awakens the next morning, realizes that she is pregnant and claims that Redman is responsible, though he denies this. Angered, Tiffany kills him. The next day, Jennifer is horrified to find herself with a fully pregnant belly. The voodoo magic that fuels the killer dolls has also accelerated the pregnancy. Jennifer is captured by Chucky. Her chauffeur, Stan, serving as Chucky's replacement body due to Redman's death, is also captured. Jennifer's assistant Joan (Hannah Spearritt) tries to help her, but she is brutally killed by Glenda, Glen's murderous alternate personality, whose soul shares Glen's body. Tiffany discovers this and smacks Glenda to bring back Glen, who is horrified at what has happened.Jennifer gives birth to twins, a boy and a girl, and it is then that Chucky has an epiphany. After years of being an infamous killer doll, Chucky finally accepts his circumstances. Disturbed, Tiffany rejects Chucky and resolves to take Glen with her. Chucky tries to throw a knife at Tiffany, but Stan jumps in front of it to save her, causing him to be stabbed in his chest, and he tells Jennifer that he loves her before he dies. The police arrive, forcing the dolls to flee. Jennifer is rushed to the hospital but claims she wants to see her babies. Tiffany drugs Jennifer and begins to possess her, but Chucky breaks in and kills Tiffany with an ax. Before Tiffany dies, she tells Glen to not make the same mistakes his mom and dad have made. Glen, devastated by his mother's death, finally snaps and challenges Chucky to a fight. Jennifer throws Chucky's axe to Glen, and Glen impales Chucky in his chest. Chucky assumes it's Glenda again, but Glen reveals that it's actually him, finally able to kill in revenge for his mother's death. As he says this, he brings the axe down, dismembering Chucky limb by limb, calling him "Daddy" and asking if he's proud of him, finally. Chucky actually is, and he congratulates Glen right before the final, fatal blow. Realizing what he has done, Glen suffers an emotional breakdown, and Jennifer comforts him.Five years later, at Glen and Glenda's birthday party, a nanny quits her job because Jennifer's daughter Glenda scares her. Jennifer lets the nanny quit, only to kill her when she turns away. Jennifer's eyes glow green, revealing that Tiffany was successful in possessing Jennifer's body. Glen has one more birthday present to open, an anonymous gift. When he opens it, Chucky's severed arm springs up to grab him, Chucky's maniacal laugh is heard as the screen goes black.