Voices of Iraq is a 2004 documentary film about Iraq, created by distributing cameras to the subjects of a film, thus enabling subjects to film themselves.[2] To preserve its innovative filmmaking, Voices of Iraq was added to the permanent collection of Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences.[2] Producer Eric Manes explained, "Without Iraqis as the directors, we would have seen Iraq and its people only through the filter of Western eyes. We certainly would not have had the access or the emotional intimacy that was captured in the film."[1] Euphrates, an Iraqi Anglo hip-hop group, scored the soundtrack. The film was released theatrically in the United States and internationally and created a new genre of filmmaking.   Movie Maker Magazine asked the producers, "Voices of Iraq is truly a groundbreaking film—both in terms of its content and the process behind its production. What was your main mission in creating this film?" Eric Manes responded, "Our goal was simply to give the Iraqi people a voice. For years we had heard only the American media’s version of what Iraq and its people were like. We decided that since Iraq was such a major issue in the U.S., it was time to hear their story first-hand. Iraqis are a wonderfully diverse group of people who have been silenced for over 24 years, living in fear of Saddam Hussein and his regime. We realized we could finally give Iraqis a venue to freely share their lives, hopes and dreams with the rest of the world now that he was no longer in complete control of the country." When questioned on the film's budget, Martin Kunert said, "We used single chip, GR-D30U JVC cameras, which you can buy used on the net for around $230." "Our budget came out to around $500,000. With inexpensive cameras and editing stations, the greatest expense was our post-production staff: translators and assistant editors. Second to that, the 35 mm blow-up."[2] In the fall of 2004, Magnolia Films distributed Voices of Iraq theatrically in the United States. It is now available on DVD. In 2005, Voices of Iraq screened as part of the Directors Guild of America "Filmmaking and War" series and screened in international films festivals at Locarno, Edinburgh, Melbourne, South Korea and the Philippines. After which, it entered in theatrically distribution internationally.[14] Reportedly, the film spread across Iraq as a popular community distributed film[citation needed]. Made by Booya Studios. Filmed and directed by the People of Iraq (and Martin Kunert, uncredited). Produced by Eric Manes, Martin Kunert, Archie Drury. Edited by Robin Russell, Martin Kunert, Stephan Mark.[1] Distributed theatrically in the US by Magnolia Pictures,[15] and overseas by Becker Film International.[14] The Voices of Iraq soundtrack was produced and performed by Euphrates, an Iraqi Anglo hip hop group.