White Chicks is a 2004 American comedy film written, produced and directed by Keenen Ivory Wayans, and also written and produced by brothers Shawn and Marlon Wayans, who starred in the lead roles. Produced by Revolution Studios and distributed by Columbia Pictures, the plot revolves around whiteface drag, as two African American male FBI agents disguise themselves as two white women. The film was released in the United States on June 23, 2004. It has a 15% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes, and grossed $113.1 million worldwide against a budget of $37 million.The plot begins in a convenience store where two FBI agents and brothers, Kevin and Marcus Copeland (Shawn Wayans and Marlon Wayans), try to capture members of an organization that sells drugs inside ice cream boxes, posing as Dominican clerks. Unfortunately, the first arrival turns out to be a genuine ice cream delivery, and the actual drug dealers manage to get away. The situation is worsened by the fact that Kevin and Marcus have decided to resolve this bust by themselves.The FBI supervisor, Elliott Gordon (Frankie Faison), gives the two agents a last chance to remain in the FBI by giving them the duty of protecting the mega-rich billionaire cruise line heiresses Brittany and Tiffany Wilson (Maitland Ward and Anne Dudek), who are arriving in town for Labour Day Weekend in the Hamptons, from a kidnapping plot (known as the socialite kidnappings). When the Wilson sisters get minor facial cuts in a car accident, Kevin convinces them to stay in the hotel all weekend. Kevin and Marcus then disguise themselves as the Wilson sisters in order to save their jobs.At the Hamptons hotel, Kevin and Marcus (as Brittany and Tiffany) meet Brittany and Tiffany's three best friends, Karen (Busy Philipps), Tori (Jessica Cauffiel), and Lisa (Jennifer Carpenter), and their rivals the Vandergeld sisters, Megan (Brittany Daniel) and Heather (Jaime King). They also encounter Karen's love interest, Heath, a broke and jobless actor who happens to be Heather's boyfriend. Kevin shows an interest in the news reporter Denise Porter (Rochelle Aytes) from New York 1 and makes an attempt to woo her, forgetting that he is still in disguise as a woman. Marcus' wife Gina (Faune Chambers), whose relationship is already troubled, becomes an additional complicating factor as she gets suspicious when she hears a woman's voice in the background during a phone conversation with Marcus. The woman (a sales representative) is actually just trying to help Marcus get dressed, but Gina does not know that and assumes that Marcus is having an affair. Meanwhile, Latrell Spencer (Terry Crews) takes an interest in Marcus, thinking that he is Tiffany and white. A date with Marcus/Tiffany is then auctioned off to Latrell during a charity dinner, much to Marcus's fear and Heather's jealousy. At the same time, Kevin learns of Denise's desire to be wooed by a wealthy man as opposed to the men she usually sees, and uses Latrell/Marcus's date to steal Latrell's Aston Martin DB7 and house keys to take Denise on a date while pretending to be Latrell. When Kevin and Denise arrive at Latrell's house, Kevin gets mauled by Latrell's giant dog (A Rottweiler) until he manages to trap the dog. As Kevin and Denise get close, he manages to gain some information relevant to the case of Ted Burton (the suspect they're after). Meanwhile, Marcus makes many attempts to repulse Latrell on their date while brushing off his many advances such as eating uncontrollably, chewing off a hangnail on his toe and farting.At a nightclub, Latrell attempts to drug Marcus in hopes of having sex only to be tricked into taking it himself and ends up in bed with Heath's friend, Russ (Steven Grayhm). Marcus and Kevin beat Heather and Megan in a dance-off hoping to help Karen win Heath only to have Heather drag him off. Karen is seen vomiting in the bathroom, drunk and unintentionally slips to Marcus and Kevin that Warren Vangergeld (John Heard) is penniless, and has only recently paid Karen's own father back for loans he has lent him. The next day, the real Brittany and Tiffany see their faces on a magazine, and they realize that two people are impersonating them. Gina and her friend, Shaunice (Drew Sidora), sees Kevin as Brittany while visiting Marcus and believes that Marcus is "cheating" on her and leaves him in disbelief and hurt. The Wilson sisters go to the hotel their clones were seen at where agents Gomez and Harper (thinking that they are Kevin and Marcus after searching their room through suspicion and finding panties and female masks) undress them only to find out that they're the real Wilson sisters and lose their jobs. This leads to the chief finding out that Marcus and Kevin have been impersonating Brittany and Tiffany. Because of this, the chief fires the both of them. Later on, Kevin and Marcus then realize that Mr. Vandergeld has been behind the kidnappings, using the ransom money to keep his family in their luxurious lifestyle. Their attempts to notify their chief fall on deaf ears and so they pursue the case themselves.At the fashion show, Kevin and Marcus replace the Vandergeld sisters on the catwalk which angers them and attempt to humiliate the Wilson sisters. Marcus stands up for Karen after she tells Heath she's tired of waiting for him and he callously brushes her off. After the Vandergeld sisters are foiled by the trio and humiliated off the catwalk, Marcus and Kevin are exposed by the real Wilson sisters, at which point Warren Vandergeld attempts to kidnap the Wilson sisters. He temporarily manages to capture one of the real twins and Kevin, only to have his criminal activities and bankruptcy exposed. In the ensuing fight, Kevin is shot trying to protect Denise, and Latrell is shot trying to protect Marcus. The duo successfully capture Vandergeld along with Heath and Russ (with the help of Gomez and Harper) before his plan succeeded which gets them their jobs back. While thanking Latrell, Marcus reveals that he is actually a black man. While Latrell is upset that Marcus is a man, his primary anger stems from the fact that Marcus is black, not that he is a man. Marcus apologizes to Gina for constantly putting work before love, and the two make up, much to Shaunice's chagrin. Denise falls for Kevin after he saves her from a bullet shot by Vandergeld when she caught his secret on film. The movie ends with Tori, Lisa, and Karen becoming friends with Kevin and Marcus for real by making a pact to stay together and go shopping.