Meet the Parents is a 2000 American comedy film written by Jim Herzfeld and John Hamburg and directed by Jay Roach. Starring Robert De Niro and Ben Stiller, the film chronicles a series of unfortunate events that befall a good-hearted but hapless man while visiting his girlfriend's parents. Teri Polo, Blythe Danner, and Owen Wilson also star.Gaylord "Greg" Focker is a male nurse living in Chicago. He intends to propose to his girlfriend Pam Byrnes, but his plan is disrupted when he learns that Pam's sister, Debbie's fiance had asked Pam's father for permission before proposing. Greg and Pam travel to Pam's parents' house to attend Pam's sister's wedding. Greg hopes to propose to Pam in front of her family after receiving her father's permission. But this plan is put on hold when the airline loses his luggage, including the engagement ring.At the Byrnes' home, Greg meets Pam's overbearing father Jack, mother Dina and their cat, Jinxy, a seal-point peke-faced Himalayan with an all-black tail. Jack takes an instant dislike to Greg and openly criticizes him for his choice of career as a male nurse and whatever else he sees as a difference between Greg and the Byrnes family. Greg tries to impress Jack, but his efforts fail after he recites the lyrics to "Day by Day" from "Godspell" when asked to say grace at dinner (as he is Jewish), making up a story of milking a cat, finding out Pam was engaged and (while popping the cork of a bottle of champagne) accidentally breaking an urn holding the remains of Jack's mother which Jinx then urinates in. Greg becomes even more uncomfortable after he receives an impromptu lie detector test from Jack and later learns from Pam that her father is a retired CIA counterintelligence officer.Meeting the rest of Pam's family and friends, Greg still feels like an outsider. Despite efforts to impress the family, Greg's inadvertent actions make him an easy target for ridicule, disdain and anger: He accidentally breaks Debbie's nose during a volleyball mishap; uses a malfunctioning toilet that floods the Byrnes' back yard with sewage; sets the wedding altar on fire and inadvertently leads Jack to think he is a marijuana user. He also feels inferior to Kevin, Pam's ex-fiance who, unlike him, receives nothing but warmth and friendliness from Jack. Later, Greg loses Jinx and replaces him with a feral cat whose tail he spray paints to make him look like Mr. Jinx while desperately seeking Jack's approval.After a failed attempt to beat Jack home from a restaurant to hide the evidence, (and the feral cat destroyed the living room) the entire Byrnes family, including Pam, agrees that it is best for Greg to leave. Unwillingly, Greg goes to the airport where he is detained by airport security for making a scene on the plane while trying to stow his recently-found bag into the overhead storage hold (and for saying "bomb"). Back at the Byrnes household, Jack tries to convince his wife and Pam that Greg would be an unsuitable husband. But he receives retribution from both Pam and Dina, who reminds him that he is only caring about himself, not Pam's happiness, and that he was also equally vicious to Kevin until Pam ended her relationship with him. Jack realizes that Pam truly loves Greg. Jack rushes to the airport, convinces airport security to release Greg and brings him back to the Byrnes household.Greg proposes to Pam. She accepts, and her parents agree that they should now meet Greg's parents. After Debbie's wedding, Jack views VHS footage of Greg recorded by hidden cameras that he had placed strategically around their house.