Constantine is a 2005 American-German occult detective action horror film directed by Francis Lawrence as his feature film directorial debut, starring Keanu Reeves as John Constantine, with Rachel Weisz, Shia LaBeouf, Tilda Swinton, Pruitt Taylor Vince, and Djimon Hounsou. With a screenplay by Kevin Brodbin and Frank Cappello, the film is based on DC Comics' Hellblazer comic book, with plot elements taken from the "Dangerous Habits" story arc (issues #41–46) and the "Original Sins" story arc.God and Lucifer have a standing wager for the souls of all mankind. Angels and demons are forbidden to manifest on Earth; instead, their hybrid off-springs (human-angel and human-demon) can be used to influence humans.In a church ruin in a Mexican countryside, a scavenger named Manuel finds a spearhead wrapped in a Nazi flag, which is later revealed as the Spear of Destiny. Manuel becomes possessed and begins to make his way to the US.Exorcist John Constantine exorcises a girl possessed by a soldier demon trying to break through to Earth, something that should not be possible under the wager's rules. He meets with the androgynous half-angel being Gabriel. He asks Gabriel for a reprieve from his impending death from lung cancer. Gabriel declines, telling Constantine that he exorcises demons for selfish reasons and will not earn his way to Heaven.After being assaulted by another demon, Constantine goes to former witch doctor Papa Midnite, who runs a club serving as neutral ground where half-breeds do not have to conceal themselves. Midnite does not believe Constantine's claim of demons crossing over. Constantine leaves, after exchanging hostile words with half-demon Balthazar.Elsewhere, a woman named Isabel Dodson commits suicide in a psychiatric hospital. Her twin sister, Detective Angela Dodson, refuses to believe Isabel, a devout Catholic, would kill herself. Watching security footage of Isabel's suicide, Angela hears her saying Constantine's name. Angela finds Constantine and asks him to help investigate. After they are attacked by winged demons, which Constantine believes were targeting Angela, he agrees to help.Constantine briefly transports himself to Hell, and sees Isabel damned to eternally relive her suicide. He briefs his findings to Angela. He explains to her that he was born with the power to see the true nature of the half-breeds. He committed suicide to escape his visions, but was saved by paramedics. However, for the sin of taking his own life, his soul is destined for Hell. The two examine Isabel's room in the hospital and find a clue pointing to a prophecy that Lucifer's son, Mammon, will attempt to claim Earth as his own kingdom. To do so, Mammon requires a powerful psychic and assistance from God.Angela tells Constantine that Isabel was a clairvoyant and a psychic, and was committed by her parents as a result. Angela had the same gifts, but suppressed it. At Angela's insistence, Constantine reawakens her psychic ability through a near death experience. She immediately finds a clue pinpointing Balthazar as an accomplice to the plot. Constantine interrogates Balthazar, who reveals that Mammon has the Spear, stained with the blood of Christ - the assistance from God. Angela, now the psychic in place of Isabel, is abducted by an invisible entity and impregnated by Manuel.Constantine convinces Midnite that the demons are breaking the wager's rules. With Midnite's help, Constantine finds out how the Spear emerged and Angela's location. Constantine arms himself, and goes to the hospital, accompanied by his driver and apprentice Chas Kramer. The two fight their way through an army of half-demons and exorcise a possessed Angela. However, Chas is killed by the invisible entity, which turns out to be Gabriel. Resenting God’s favoritism towards humans, the half-angel plans to unleash Hell on Earth to weed out those deemed "unworthy" of God’s love. Gabriel casts Constantine from the room and prepares to use the Spear to cut Mammon free from Angela.Out of options, Constantine slits his wrists. As he bleeds out, Lucifer arrives to personally collect his soul. Constantine tells Lucifer of Mammon's plan to usurp him. Lucifer easily overpowers Gabriel, burns Gabriel's wings and banishes Mammon. In return for his help, Lucifer grants Constantine a favor. Constantine asks that Isabel be released to Heaven. Lucifer complies, but then realizes that he cannot take Constantine to Hell. By selflessly sacrificing himself, Constantine is granted entry to Heaven. Infuriated, Lucifer heals Constantine's injuries and cures him of cancer, hoping he will eventually make a mistake and damn himself again. Angela and Constantine depart, leaving the now human Gabriel. Sometime later, Constantine, now making an effort to quit smoking, entrusts the Spear to Angela.In a post-credits scene, Constantine visits Chas' grave, where Chas appears in an angelic form and flies away.