Dreamer is a 2005 American sports drama film written and directed by John Gatins[1] in his directorial debut. The film stars Kurt Russell, Kris Kristofferson, Elisabeth Shue and Dakota Fanning. It is inspired by the true story of an injured Thoroughbred racehorse named Mariah's Storm. The film premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 10, 2005 and was theatrically released on October 21, 2005 by DreamWorks Pictures. The film received mixed to positive reviews from critics, and earned $38 million on a $32 million budget. It also received a Critics Choice Award nomination for Best Family Film.Ben (Kurt Russell), a horse trainer who takes his work very seriously, neglects his precocious daughter while he pours his heart into the care of the horses that he trains.Determined to make good on her father's overdue promise, Cale (Dakota Fanning) prods him to take her along to work and succeeds. One morning, a horse named Soñador falls during a race, injuring herself so badly that Ben's boss, Palmer, demands the horse be put down. Having Cale along, Ben instead strikes a bargain with Palmer and becomes the owner of the wounded horse. With no job and facing foreclosure on his property, he decides to breed Soñador.Cale, having fallen in love at first sight with Soñador, begins to sneak out to the barn at night to see her. She also sneaks over to see her grandfather, 'Pop', Ben's dad (Kris Kristofferson), who loves teaching his granddaughter about horses.They go to another farm to pick out a stallion to breed with Soñador, but the stud fee is too high. Ben's father gives Ben some money to use to breed, and Ben reluctantly takes it. But before they can breed, the vet tests Soñador and finds out she is unable to have a foal.After, Cale hears her father tell her mother, Lilly (Elisabeth Shue), that Soñador has ruined them because she cannot have a foal. Lily responds that Soñador is the best thing that has ever happened to them, alluding to the fact that Ben is finally spending much-needed time with Cale. Frustrated, Ben says that if Cale wasn't there the day when Soñador was hurt, he would have let her be put down.Hurt after hearing the conversation, Cale sets out to run away and saddles Soñador. Not knowing of Cale's plan, Ben enters the barn. The door slams behind him, and a startled Soñador bolts out of the barn with Cale hanging on for dear life. Ben scrambles to his truck and sets out after them.This incident begins to cement the newly forming bond between father and daughter and heal the wounds of the whole family. They realize that Soñador was very fast, and decide to try racing her. Unfortunately after the race she is claimed, and Cale is angry at her father for selling her.At a parent-teacher night, Ben reads a story that Cale wrote about a King and his horse, and realizes how much their family needs Soñador. He buys her back with money from his father. Cale decides to race Soñador in the Breeder's Cup Classic, with Manny, Ben's work colleague, as the jockey. They train together and eventually get into the race. At the race, Soñador is upset by Goliath's Boy, Palmer's horse, and Ben thinks this will hurt her chances in the race. But he looks and Soñador and realizes she is ready to race, and she goes on to win the Breeder's Cup Classic.