The Exorcism of Emily Rose is a 2005 American legal drama horror film directed by Scott Derrickson and starring Laura Linney and Tom Wilkinson. The film is loosely based on the story of Anneliese Michel and follows a self-proclaimed agnostic who acts as defense counsel (Linney) representing a parish priest (Wilkinson), accused by the state of negligent homicide after he performed an exorcism.Emily Rose, a 19-year old American teenager, dies of self-inflicted wounds and malnutrition following an attempted exorcism. Father Richard Moore, the Catholic diocesan priest who attempted the exorcism is arrested and sent to court. While the archdiocese want Moore to plead guilty to minimize the crime’s public attention, Moore instead plans to plead Not Guilty. Erin Bruner, an ambitious lawyer hoping to use the trial to become a senior partner in her law firm, takes on the case. Moore agrees to let her defend him if he can tell the truth behind Emily’s story.During the trial, Emily’s past is told through flashbacks and the evidence provided by witnesses. The trial’s prosecutor is Ethan Thomas, with Judge Brewster presiding. The prosecution claims Emily suffered from epilepsy and psychosis to explain her behaviour. Emily got a scholarship to study for a bachelor’s degree, but shortly displayed sights of demonic possession after she began attending classes, experiencing visions and physical contortions. Diagnosed with epilepsy, Emily receives anti-seizure medication but the treatment fails to cure her. A friend named Jason took Emily back home to her family, where she continued displaying traits of possession until Moore was summoned to attempt an exorcism.Bruner begins experiencing supernatural phenomena at home, waking up at 3:00 a.m. to the scene of burning material. Moore warns her she may be a target for the demons, revealing he too has experienced similar phenomena on the night he was preparing the exorcism. With the prosecution building a strong case, Bruner steps up her own by trying to legitimise Emily’s possession. She summons anthropologist, Sandira Adani, to testify about the beliefs about spiritual possession from various cultures, but Thomas dismisses her claims as nonsense. Graham Cartwright, a medical doctor who attended the exorcism, gives Bruner a cassette tape on which the exorcism was recorded.Moore is called to the stand where he plays the tape. As seen through a flashback, Moore, Emily’s father, Jason, and Dr. Cartwright participate in the exorcism while her mother and sisters pray in the living room. During the Lord's Prayer, Emily attacks, causing the family cats to become agitated by demonic presence and attack Moore. As Jason and Cartwright help Moore, Emily escapes her restraints, leaps out of a window, and flees to the family barn. The others give chase, Moore continuing the exorcism and demanding to know the demon’s name. It responds by revealing there are six demons – those who possessed Cain, Nero, and Judas Iscariot, a member of Legion, Belial, and Lucifer himself. The exorcism abruptly ends with Emily fainting, and runaway horses injuring those present. Thomas reasons that Emily’s behaviour can be explained by learning ancient languages at school and her epilepsy.Moore then reads a letter left by Emily the day before she died. A flashback reveals the day after the exorcism, Emily went outside and sees the Virgin Mary. Offered a choice between ascending to Heaven or remaining to become a martyr but prove the existence of God and demons, Emily chooses the latter. Moore explains she then received stigmata on her arms, but Thomas claims she gained the markings from grabbing a barbed wire fence.The jury ultimately reach a verdict of guilty, but ask Brewster to give a sentence of time served, to which she agrees. Bruner is offered the position she wanted, but declines and resigns. Bruner and Father Moore visit Emily’s gravestone, where Moore believes that, in time, Emily will be regarded as a saint.