Flightplan is a 2005 German-American mystery-thriller film directed by Robert Schwentke, written by Peter A. Dowling and Billy Ray, and starring Jodie Foster, Peter Sarsgaard, Erika Christensen, Kate Beahan, Greta Scacchi, and Sean Bean. The film, distributed by Touchstone Pictures, was released theatrically in the United States on September 23, 2005.




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (January 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Recently widowed Kyle Pratt (Jodie Foster), an American aircraft engineer employed in Berlin, Germany, is taking her husband David's body back to the U.S. She and her six-year-old daughter, Julia (Marlene Lawston), are flying aboard an Aalto Airlines Elgin 474, an aircraft Kyle helped design. When Kyle awakens from a short nap, Julia is missing. None of the passengers or crew recall seeing Julia. Flight attendant Stephanie (Kate Beahan) later claims there is no record of Julia boarding and the passenger manifest registers the child's seat as unoccupied. Julia's boarding pass and backpack are also missing. Kyle insists that Captain Marcus Rich (Sean Bean) conduct a thorough search of the plane.Julia is not found and Kyle becomes increasingly desperate. She unjustly accuses two Arab passengers (Michael Irby and Assaf Cohen) of kidnapping Julia and plotting to hijack the plane. Captain Rich and the flight attendants (particularly Stephanie) suspect Kyle is unhinged by her husband's death and may have imagined bringing her daughter on board. Because of Kyle's increasingly erratic and panicked behaviour, Captain Rich orders sky marshal Gene Carson (Peter Sarsgaard) to guard and handcuff her.Later, Captain Rich receives a wire from a Berlin hospital claiming Julia died with her father. Kyle furiously denies this and insists the search continue. Instead, Carson escorts Kyle back to her seat. A therapist, Lisa (Greta Scacchi), consoles Kyle, who starts doubting her own sanity until she notices the heart Julia drew on the window glass next to her seat. Kyle asks to use the bathroom and, once inside, climbs through a trapdoor into plane's overhead crawl space. She sabotages the aircraft's electronics, deploying the oxygen masks and cutting power to the plane's lighting. During the ensuing chaos, she rides a dumbwaiter to the lower freight deck. She finds and opens David's casket using the lock code, suspecting Julia may be trapped inside, but it only contains her husband's body. Carson finds her and escorts her back to her seat in handcuffs. He says the flight is making an emergency stopover at Goose Bay Airport in Newfoundland, Canada where she will be taken into custody.Kyle makes a final plea to Carson to search the plane upon landing. Before speaking to the captain, Carson sneaks down the freight deck and removes two explosives and a detonator concealed in David's casket, then goes to the Avionics Section where Julia is sleeping (presumably drugged). He plants and arms the explosives. It is revealed that Carson, Stephanie, and the mortuary director in Berlin (Christian Berkel) are part of a conspiracy. Carson tells Captain Rich that Kyle is a hijacker and is threatening to blow up the aircraft unless $50 million is transferred to a bank account and a G3 plane is readied upon landing. Carson plans to detonate the explosives, which will kill Julia and leave Kyle dead with the detonator in hand.After landing in Newfoundland, the tarmac is surrounded by U.S. FBI agents. After the passengers disembark, Kyle apologizes to Captain Rich for disrupting the flight but is certain Julia will be found. Angered, Captain Rich demands she drop the charade, stating that the $50 million has been wired. Kyle realizes that Carson is the perpetrator and, assuming the role of a hijacker, demands Carson remain aboard and the crew leave. Carson realizes he cannot refuse without giving himself away.When the plane's door closes, Kyle knocks Carson unconscious with a fire extinguisher, handcuffs him to a rail, and takes the detonator. Stephanie appears and uncuffs Carson as he regains consciousness. He fires a gun at Kyle, sending her running and locking herself into the cockpit. She fools Carson to lure him away from the cockpit, allowing her to exit. Meanwhile, a panicked Stephanie flees the plane.Kyle finds the unconscious Julia but is confronted by Carson. He reveals how Julia was kidnapped and says David was murdered to conceal explosives in his casket (as caskets are not required to be x-rayed). Kyle, carrying Julia, escapes into the cargo hold and closes the hatch, the detonator in hand. She detonates the explosives, killing Carson. Kyle and Julia are unharmed, and, once out on the tarmac, prove Kyle was telling the truth.Inside the airport terminal, Captain Rich apologizes to Kyle. Stephanie, Carson's accomplice, is led away in handcuffs. The mortuary director will also be arrested.