Hostel is a 2005 American horror film written and directed by Eli Roth. It stars Jay Hernandez and was produced by Mike Fleiss, Eli Roth, and Chris Briggs; Boaz Yakin, Scott Spiegel, and Quentin Tarantino are executive producers. It is the first installment of the Hostel trilogy, followed by Hostel: Part II (2007) and Hostel: Part III (2011). The film tells the story of two college students traveling across Europe, who find themselves preyed upon by a mysterious group that tortures and kills kidnapped victims.College students Paxton (Jay Hernandez) and Josh (Derek Richardson) are traveling across Europe with their Icelandic friend Óli (Eyþór Guðjónsson). In Amsterdam, the three meet a man named Alexei, who convinces them to visit a hostel in Slovakia filled with beautiful women. The three board a train to Slovakia, where they encounter a strange Dutch businessman. When they arrive at the hostel, they are greeted by Natalya (Barbara Nedeljáková) and Svetlana (Jana Kaderabkova). That night, Paxton and Josh sleep with Natalya and Svetlana, while Óli sleeps with the desk girl. The next morning, they are surprised to see that Óli hasn't returned, and are unable to contact him. They are later approached by a Japanese girl named Kana (Jennifer Lim), who shows them a photo of Óli and her friend Yuki, who has disappeared as well.Although Josh is anxious to leave, Paxton convinces him to stay one more night. That night, Josh and Paxton are slipped tranquilizers. Josh wakes up and is approached by a man who drills holes into his chest and legs. The man reveals himself as the Dutch businessman, and tells Josh about his failed dream of becoming a surgeon. The businessman ultimately slices his throat, killing Josh.Paxton wakes up the next morning and returns to the hostel. He is greeted by two women in an eerily similar manner to Natalya and Svetlana. He finds Natalya and Svetlana at a pub and asks them if they know where Josh is. Natalya tells him that Josh and Óli are visiting an art exhibit, and takes him there: Paxton is horrified to see instead Josh's mutilated corpse being stitched together by the Dutch businessman. Paxton is ambushed by thugs and dragged down a hallway, passing by rooms where people are being brutally tortured to death. He is then brought into a cell, where he is restrained and joined by a German client named Johann.After severing two of Paxton's fingers with a chainsaw, Johann charges at him but slips and severs his own leg. Paxton reaches for a gun and shoots Johann in the head. He escapes the cell and hides in the bottom of a cart filled with corpses. A butcher takes the corpses to be incinerated, and Paxton bludgeons him with a sledge hammer. He then enters the dressing room, where he changes into business clothes and meets an American client (Rick Hoffman), who mistakes him for another customer.Paxton escapes the factory but returns after hearing cries for help. He discovers Kana being tortured by the American client. After killing the American client, Paxton and Kana flee in a stolen car. While driving, Paxton sees Natalya, Svetlana, and Alexei, and runs them all over. Paxton and Kana arrive at the train station, but after seeing her disfigured face, Kana leaps in front of an oncoming train. This creates a distraction, allowing Paxton to board another train unnoticed.Once aboard, Paxton hears the voice of the Dutch Businessman. When the train stops in Vienna, Paxton follows him to a public restroom and kills him. He then boards another train.Alternate Ending[edit]In the Director's Cut, Paxton kidnaps the Dutch Businessman's daughter instead of killing him. After finding her teddy bear in the restroom she was supposed to be in, the Dutch Businessman searches for his missing daughter, unaware that Paxton's train has just left.