Kids in America is a 2005 American comedy film[1] directed by Josh Stolberg. It was written by Andrew Shaifer and Stolberg. The film is inspired by real events. It received negative reviews from film critics, and was a box office bomb.[2]Inspired by real events,[3] Kids In America is a teen comedy about a diverse group of high school kids who band together to peacefully stand for their personal rights and dignity. Holden Donovan and his love interest, Charlotte Pratt, are fed up with Principal Donna Weller, who goes to great lengths to stop the students from enjoying their right to free expression, such as suspending Monica Rose for wearing condoms on her outfit to promote safe sex during Spirit Week and suspending Lawrence Reitzer for kissing another guy in the hallway. Meanwhile, she’s running for State School Superintendent, which, if elected, will afford her the power to practice her brand of administration beyond Booker High School. Holden himself is suspended and ultimately expelled for speaking out publicly against Weller, to whom he says, "You’re nothing but a politician".The students have an ally, Mr. Will Drucker, one of their teachers who encourages them to fight for their rights. He pays a price for his position and is fired by Principal Weller. He decides to use his dismissal to make a change of his own, using his new-found free time to produce a documentary chronicling the experiences of students who are faced with similar issues. Holden befriends a group of teens, including libertarian Charlotte Pratt, voyeuristic punk-rock fan Chuck McGinn, cheerleader Katie Carmichael, American-of-Chinese-descent Emily Chua, homosexual Lawrence Reitzer, American-of-African-descent Walanda Jenkins, cheerleader Kelly Stepford, founder of the school’s celibacy society Monica Rose, cheerleader Ashley Harris, and goth chick Dementia. Together, they engage in civil disobedience, passing out condoms and staging walk-outs, and organize the student body to take on Principal Weller and make a real change at Booker High. Due to their efforts, Weller loses the election and subsequently quits her job.During the credits, Smith and Sherrin share a kiss that holds the record for the longest on screen kiss lasting just over six minutes.[4]