Nine Lives is a 2005 American drama film written and directed by Rodrigo García. The screenplay, an example of hyperlink cinema, relates nine short, loosely intertwined tales with nine different women at their cores. Their themes include parent-child relationships, fractured love, adultery, illness, and death. Similar to García's previous work, Things You Can Tell Just by Looking at Her, it is a series of overlapping vignettes, each one running about the same length and told in a single, unbroken take, featuring an ensemble cast.
Imprisoned Sandra (Elpidia Carrillo) has an emotional breakdown when the broken telephone in her cubicle prevents her from communicating with her daughter on visiting day.
Diana (Robin Wright Penn) and Damian (Jason Isaacs), two former flames now married to others, unexpectedly have a poignant reunion in the aisle of the local supermarket.
Holly (Lisa Gay Hamilton) returns home to confront her sexually abusive stepfather and dissolves into gun-waving hysteria.
Feuding married couple Sonia (Holly Hunter) and Martin (Stephen Dillane) have an emotional meltdown while visiting their friends Lisa (Molly Parker) and Damian (Jason Isaacs) in their new apartment.
Teenaged Samantha (Amanda Seyfried) is torn between her non-communicative parents Ruth (Sissy Spacek), and Larry (Ian McShane), each of whom questions her about everything the other one has to say.
Divorcée Lorna (Amy Brenneman) must cope with her ex-husband Andrew's (William Fichtner) sexual desire for her during his second wife's funeral.
Ruth (Sissy Spacek), primary caretaker for her wheelchair-using husband, becomes increasingly guilt-ridden during a tryst with drunken widower Henry (Aidan Quinn) in a hotel.
Camille (Kathy Baker) is facing breast cancer surgery and uses her waiting time to lash out at her quietly supportive husband Richard (Joe Mantegna).
Maggie (Glenn Close) discusses life with her daughter Maria (Dakota Fanning) during a picnic in the cemetery and realizes how much she needs the little girl's loving comfort.
