Supercross is a 2005 American action film directed by Steve Boyum and starring Steve Howey and Mike Vogel. The movie is a mixture of youthful relationships set in the intense world of professional Supercross.   K.C. Carlyle (Howey) and Trip (Vogel) are brothers who compete in a supercross, a race involving off-the-road motorcycles on an artificial dirt track. K.C. accepts a lucrative deal to race on a factory team and leaves behind his brother to fund his own racing. When an accident disables Trip, K.C. resolves his differences with him, and Trip helps coach K.C. to win the supercross championship.[2] Supercross: The Movie is the full title of the 35mm color motion picture, first presented in Brentwood during a motorcycle event on the evening of August 17, 2005, then on August 19 released into full worldwide theatrical distribution. The director of photography for the dramatic segments was William Wages. Talk is that he was asked to re-create a sort of "olden times" look to the movie, by purposely overexposing the acting segment footage. The grainy and at times thin film is in contrast with the deep and clear cycle racing photography. Among the very finest action film makers are to be credited with the high quality look during actual motorcycle race events, that features the work of a sky train cinema camera helped along by top notch film production experts. Corporate teamwork created for the movie some of the best imagery that Clear Channel has to offer. Also, Steve Boyum excelled during his strong points of motorcycle race and stunt work photography. To make the filming story line, actors and actor double cycle racers David Castillo and Rich Taylor had to qualify for the cycle racing competition events up through and including the World Supercross Championship final race. During the finals, there was also a ten-minute break between the racing events, so that the stunt doubles could complete some work needed to film specific contest action during the movie's final minutes. Modeled sound effects mix it up with an IMAX style combination of extreme close-up and fine focus film footage during most of the actual Motocross and Supercross live action events. The Las Vegas Supercross final events live action filmed using an over-the-stadium cable camera, brings a new dimension to motorcycle racing cinematography.[citation needed] Supercross is the soundtrack to the motocross film "Supercross". It has not been released yet but here are the tracks listed in the film.