Underclassman is a 2005 action comedy film directed by Marcos Siega, and stars Nick Cannon, Shawn Ashmore, Roselyn Sánchez, Kelly Hu, Hugh Bonneville, and Cheech Marin. It was released on September 2, 2005, had been originally set for a release in 2004.


This article needs an improved plot summary. (May 2016)

Tracy (Trey) Stokes (Cannon) is a 23-year-old immature bike cop working for the Los Angeles Police Department. Stokes is known for creating lots of problems for his superiors and instead of doing his assigned duties, he tries to do detective work, which always results in failure. While playing basketball with Captain Delgado, Delgado is approached by someone in the Mayor's office looking to put an undercover detective into the affluent and prestigious Westbury School after a student was killed at a party. Stokes pushes himself into the conversation and volunteers to go undercover. With much hesitation from Delgado, the Mayor's representative states that Stokes looks the part and is assigned to the undercover operation. When Stokes arrives at the school, he learns that he has been placed in the same classes as Rob Donovan (Ashmore). Stokes tries to befriend Rob and his group but they dislike Stokes. After Stokes arrives at the "Blacktop Battle" (a basketball game between two elite schools) and fills in for an injured player, helping them win the game and impressing Rob, they slowly take a shine to Stokes. Stokes later finds out at every high school party thrown, it seems as though a luxury car is stolen. Stokes cooks up a plan to throw his own party (at Captain Delgado's home) where Rob and his friends get two girls to distract Stokes in order to steal Captain Delgado's car. Stokes soon figures out that Donovan has been stealing the cars at the parties. Near the end, it is revealed that the headmaster (Bonneville) of the school had been blackmailing Donovan, thus he is the ringmaster of the crimes. After being kicked off the force by his father-figure police chief (Marin), Trey solves the case (with the help from Donovan) and is reinstated.