10th & Wolf is a 2006 film about the Philadelphia Mafia directed by Robert Moresco. It is based on a true story of a mob war in South Philadelphia. The film stars James Marsden, Giovanni Ribisi and Brad Renfro and features appearances by Dennis Hopper, Val Kilmer, Piper Perabo, Lesley Ann Warren, Tommy Lee, and Brian Dennehy. The film was billed as based on a story by "Donnie Brasco", the undercover name of FBI agent Joseph Pistone, who successfully infiltrated the Mafia, as portrayed in the movie of the same name starring Johnny Depp and Al Pacino. While the film is set in Philadelphia, it was filmed in Pittsburgh, with scenes at Tom's Diner and Bloom Cigar Company in the South Side and Hartwood Mansion.[1]   Tommy is the son of a Mafia hitman, who, after his father is killed by a rival, moves with his younger brother to live with his aunt, uncle, and cousin in Philadelphia. The sole member of his family who is not involved in crime, Tommy joins the Marines and fights in Operation Desert Storm. Becoming disillusioned when the conflict ended with Saddam Hussein still in power. and disenchanted with military service, Tommy assaults an MP, and steals a colonel's Jeep. Arrested when the jeep runs out of gas, the movie opens with Tommy in the brig at a US Marine base. An FBI agent (played by Dennehy) coerces Tommy into infiltrating the family business. The agent tells Tommy that he can protect his brother and cousin, if he'll get evidence against the Sicilian mob trying to take over the heroin trade in the US. Tommy is instructed to wear a wire to record negotiations between his cousin and gang leader, Joey Marcucci, and Mafia boss Luciano Reggio. Tommy tries to get incriminating evidence against Reggio, while protecting his cousin and younger brother in their fledgling attempts to become "goodfellas". His efforts to strike a balance between his family loyalties, and the FBI's need for evidence, take up most of the film's bulk. The film was panned by critics. As of October 2010, it holds a 19% rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 27 reviews.[2]