All the King's Men is a 2006 American political drama film based on the 1946 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel of the same name by Robert Penn Warren. All the King's Men had previously been adapted into a Best Picture-winning film by writer-director Robert Rossen in 1949. It was directed by Steven Zaillian, who also produced and scripted. The film is about the life of Willie Stark (played by Sean Penn), a fictional character resembling Louisiana governor Huey Long, in office 1928 through 1932. He was elected as a US Senator and assassinated in 1935. The film co-stars Jude Law, Kate Winslet, Anthony Hopkins, James Gandolfini, Mark Ruffalo, Patricia Clarkson and Jackie Earle Haley.Louisiana newspaper reporter Jack Burden takes a personal interest in Willie Stark, an idealistic small-town lawyer. Circumstances develop that result in Stark's being urged to run for governor by a local political leader, Tiny Duffy. Jack has been raised around politics. He is the former lover of Anne Stanton, whose father was once governor. Jack was raised by his godfather Judge Irwin, an honorable man.In time, Jack and political strategist Sadie Burke reveal to Stark that he is a dupe in the governor's race, expected to split the vote, spout the party line and lose. Stark vows not to be fooled again. He defies Duffy publicly and begins to give speeches with straightforward talk that the public appreciates. He becomes governor in the next election, using any means necessary. Duffy now works for him as lieutenant governor. He also has a silent, menacing driver and bodyguard called Sugar Boy. Finally, he recruits Jack to work for him as an adviser.Judge Irwin disapproves, seeing Stark as an opportunist. Anne Stanton seems to agree and so does her brother, Dr. Adam Stanton. Willie Stark is a persuasive man and knows how to get his way. He intends to build a new public hospital and convinces Dr. Stanton, an idealist, to run it for him. He also begins an affair with Anne Stanton, provoking Sadie's jealousy and Jack's disappointment.Criticized publicly by Judge Irwin and embroiled in increasing political controversy, Stark demands that Jack dig up dirt on the judge to be used against him. Jack insists that no such dirt exists, but he uncovers evidence that, many years ago, Judge Irwin accepted a bribe to get his job. Following this revelation, the judge commits suicide, and Jack suffers great guilt, added to by discovering that Judge Irwin was actually his biological father.Stark embraces various corruption necessary to consolidate his power, using patronage and intimidation to get his way. Told that the hospital is a fraudulent front project to enable the governor to rob the state and frame him (although Anne and Jack both say this is not true), Dr. Stanton becomes incensed when he learns of Stark's relationship with his sister. He waits at the state capitol and assassinates Stark, and is shot and killed in turn by the governor's bodyguard.The truth is that the murder was influenced by Sadie and Duffy, the latter with the intention to become governor after Stark's death.