Black Christmas (abbreviated as Black X-Mas) is a 2006 American-Canadian slasher film written and directed by Glen Morgan and starring Katie Cassidy, Michelle Trachtenberg, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Oliver Hudson, Lacey Chabert, Kristen Cloke, and Andrea Martin. The film takes place several days before Christmas, and tells the story of a group of sorority sisters who are stalked and murdered by the house's former inhabitants during a winter storm. It is a loose remake of the 1974 film of the same name. The film was produced by Morgan and James Wong through their production company Hard Eight Pictures, along with 2929 Productions and Dimension Films, while Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer distributed the film.William Edward "Billy" Lenz, a boy born with severe jaundice due to a liver disease, is constantly abused by his hateful mother. After murdering Billy's father and burying his body in the underground crawlspace with the help of her boyfriend, Mrs. Lenz locks Billy in the attic to prevent him from talking. Years later, she attempts to conceive a new baby but realizes that her new man is impotent. She goes up to the attic and rapes twelve-year-old Billy. Nine months later, a daughter named Agnes is born and treated like a princess by Mrs. Lenz. When Agnes is eight and Christmas comes around, Billy escapes from the attic and disfigures Agnes by gouging out her eye. He then taunts his terrified mother, saying "she's my family now," and gruesomely kills his mother and her lover. He is caught by the police eating cookies made out of his mother's flesh, and is sent to a mental asylum.Fifteen years later, on Christmas Eve, Billy, now 35, escapes from his cell and heads off to his former home, now a sorority house. At the Delta Alpha Kappa, Clair Crosby is killed in her bedroom being suffocated with a plastic bag before being stabbed in the eye with a fountain pen. Meanwhile, Megan Helms begins to hear noises and goes up to the attic to investigate. Upon finding Clair's body in a rocking chair, Megan is attacked and killed, suffocated with a plastic bag before her eyes are ripped out. In the living room, the other sorority girls receive a call from a rambling man, who ends the call threatening to kill them.Clair's half-sister Leigh Crosby-Colvin soon arrives searching for her. A suspicious Eve Agnew soon gives Heather Lee Fitzgerald a glass unicorn as a present before leaving the sorority house. When the lights suddenly go out, Dana Mathis goes to check the power under the house, but encounters the figure in the crawlspace and is dragged underneath and killed with a gardening tool stabbed in her head. The girls in the house receive a call from Dana's phone, and hear a scream. They leave the house to find her, only for Kelli Presley and Melissa Kitt to discover blood splatters under the house where Dana died, while Heather and Leigh find Eve decapitated in her car.Heather and housemother Barbara MacHenry immediately flee, but Heather is subsequently killed while inside the car and Barbara is stabbed through the head by a falling icicle. When Kelli and Leigh descend to the garage to investigate, Melissa is attacked with a plastic bag before she escapes into her room, as she attempts to climb out the window the assailant throws a pair of ice skates, scalping her head. The killer then sneaks into a passed out drunk Lauren Hannon's room and gouges her eyes out. Kelli and Leigh then find Lauren's eyeless corpse in bed. Kelli's boyfriend Kyle Autry then arrives, claiming he is not the killer. The three climb to the attic, where Kyle is dragged into the attic and suffocated with a plastic bag before being stabbed in the head with a glass unicorn and having his eyes ripped out which the killer eats. The killer is revealed to be Agnes, now an adult. Billy, revealed to be a second killer, also makes his way into the attic and both killers close in on Kelli and Leigh, starting a fire. Kelli and Leigh manage to escape and leave Billy and Agnes to burn in the fire.Later, Kelli and Leigh recover at the hospital. Meanwhile, Kelli goes for an x-ray, and Agnes appears in the hospital unharmed and kills Leigh by snapping her neck. When Kelli returns to her room, Agnes appears through the ceiling and attacks her but Kelli uses the defibrillator and kills Agnes. Moments later, Billy enters through the ceiling and chases Kelli to the stairwell. They fought as Kelli ends up pushing Billy off the railing where he is subsequently impaled on the tip of a Christmas tree, killing him as Kelli is left to look on in shock.