Casino Royale is the 21st film in the Eon Productions James Bond film series and the first to star Daniel Craig as the fictional MI6 agent James Bond. Directed by Martin Campbell and written by Neal Purvis & Robert Wade and Paul Haggis, the film marks the third screen adaptation of Ian Fleming's 1953 novel of the same name. Casino Royale is set at the beginning of Bond's career as Agent 007, just as he is earning his licence to kill. After preventing a terrorist attack at Miami International Airport, Bond falls in love with Vesper Lynd, the treasury employee assigned to provide the money he needs to bankrupt a terrorist financier, Le Chiffre, by beating him in a high-stakes poker game. The story arc continues in the following Bond film Quantum of Solace (2008). Skyfall (2012) and Spectre (2015) also feature explicit references to characters and events in this film.In a black & white pre-credits opening sequence, a young James Bond gains his licence to kill and status as a 00 agent by assassinating the traitorous MI6 section chief Dryden at the British Embassy in Prague, as well as his terrorist contact, Fisher, in a bathroom in Lahore.In Uganda, the mysterious liaison Mr. White introduces warlord Steven Obanno of the Lord's Resistance Army to Le Chiffre, a terrorist financier. Obanno entrusts Le Chiffre with a large sum of money, which the former uses to short-sell stock in the aerospace company Skyfleet, thus betting the money on the company's failure. In turn, the funds will be used to establish a bank account for Obanno.In Madagascar, Bond pursues bomb maker Mollaka to an African embassy, shooting him dead and blowing up the building. In London, MI6 chief M admonishes Bond for having violated international law,[7] and advises him to rethink his future as an agent.Clues from Mollaka point to corrupt Greek official Alex Dimitrios. Bond finds Dimitrios in the Bahamas and, after seducing his wife, Solange, pursues him to Miami. Bond kills Dimitrios and follows his henchman to the airport. He thwarts the destruction of Skyfleet's airliner, costing Le Chiffre his investment. To recoup the money, Le Chiffre sets up a high-stakes Texas hold 'em tournament at the Casino Royale in Montenegro. MI6 enters Bond in the tournament, believing a defeat will force Le Chiffre to seek asylum with the British government, which they will grant in exchange for information on his clients. On the train to Montenegro, Bond meets Vesper Lynd, a British Treasury agent there to protect the government's $10 million buy-in.In Montenegro, Bond and Vesper meet their MI6 contact, René Mathis. Bond gains the upper hand at the start of the game. During a break, Obanno, infuriated over the loss of his money, ambushes Le Chiffre in his suite. After Obanno leaves Le Chiffre's room, Bond engages him and strangles him to death in an ensuing struggle in a stairwell. Vesper is traumatised by the encounter, but Bond comforts her. When the tournament resumes, Bond loses his initial stake, and Vesper refuses to fund further playing. Frustrated, Bond is about to kill Le Chiffre when he meets Felix Leiter, a fellow player and CIA agent who is on the same mission as Bond. Leiter, who is on the verge of losing, agrees to stake Bond on the condition that the CIA takes custody of Le Chiffre after his defeat.Bond rapidly rebuilds his position before another break occurs. Le Chiffre's girlfriend, Valenka, spikes Bond's martini with poison. Bond throws up and retreats to his Aston Martin to inject himself with an antidote. MI6 instructs him to use the defibrillator, but he finds one of the wires is disconnected. Vesper saves Bond by reconnecting the wires and pushing the button. Bond returns to the game just as Leiter loses his last hand to Le Chiffre. The tournament then culminates in a $115-million hand in which the remaining players, including Bond and Le Chiffre, unanimously go all in. Le Chiffre trumps the other players, but Bond wins the game with a straight flush.After a romantic dinner with Vesper, Bond witnesses her being kidnapped by Le Chiffre's men. He pursues them in his Aston Martin, until he sees Vesper bound and lying in the street, and swerves to avoid her, crashing his Aston Martin. The duo are taken captive by Le Chiffre; before Bond falls unconscious, he reveals that Mathis was his mole in MI6. Le Chiffre tortures Bond for the password to the account containing the money, but Bond refuses to give in. As Le Chiffre prepares to castrate Bond, White bursts in and shoots him dead. Bond awakens in a hospital on Lake Como as Mathis is taken in by MI6. Bond and Vesper fall in love, and he decides to resign from MI6 to be with her.Bond and Vesper travel to Venice. M calls Bond and tells him the money was never deposited. Realising Vesper has stolen it, Bond pursues her and her clients into a building under renovation. The building is damaged in the struggle and begins to sink into the Grand Canal, with Vesper trapped inside a lift. Bond kills Vesper's clients and attempts to save her, but she drowns in the elevator. White, watching nearby, walks away with the money.Bond rejoins MI6 and copes with Vesper's death by denouncing her as a traitor. M informs him the same organization behind Le Chiffre had kidnapped Vesper's lover and threatened to kill him unless she became a double agent. During the torture sessions with Le Chiffre, Vesper made a deal: the money in exchange for Bond's life. Bond discovers a text message left for him by Vesper with White's name and phone number.At his estate in Lake Como, White receives a phone call from Bond. As he asks the his identity, he is shot in the leg as Bond strolls into his path holding a suppressed sub-machine gun. Bond answers the question: "The name's Bond... James Bond."