The Da Vinci Code is a 2006 American mystery thriller film directed by Ron Howard, written by Akiva Goldsman, and based on Dan Brown's 2003 best-selling novel of the same name. The first in the Robert Langdon film series, the film stars Tom Hanks, Audrey Tautou, Ian McKellen, Alfred Molina, Jürgen Prochnow, Jean Reno and Paul Bettany. In the film, Robert Langdon, a professor of religious iconography and symbology from Harvard University, is the prime suspect in the grisly and unusual murder of Louvre curator Jacques Saunière. In the body, the police finds a disconcerting cipher and starts an investigation.[3] A noted British Grail historian named Sir Leigh Teabing tells them that the actual Holy Grail is explicitly encoded in Leonardo da Vinci's wall painting, The Last Supper. Also searching for the Grail is a secret cabal within Opus Dei, an actual prelature of the Holy See, who wishes to keep the true Grail a secret; the revelation of this secret would certainly destroy Christianity.Jacques Saunière, the Louvre's curator, is pursued through the Great Gallery by an albino Catholic monk named Silas, who demands the location of the Priory's "keystone" to find and destroy the Holy Grail. Saunière gives him a false lead and is murdered, the police finding his body posed like the Vitruvian Man. Police captain Bezu Fache summons American symbologist Robert Langdon to examine Saunière's body, showing him a Polaroid of the body while he is signing autographs at one of his public talks. Langdon discovers a message hidden by blacklight which contains an out of order Fibonacci number sequence. A police cryptographer and Saunière's granddaughter, Sophie Neveu, reveals to Langdon that Fache planted a tracker on him, believing he murdered Saunière due to a message to find him, erased by Fache. The two get rid of the tracker and sneak around the Louvre, finding more clues in Leonardo da Vinci's works, Langdon deducing that Saunière was grand master of the Priory of Sion.Silas is revealed to be working for an anonymous person named the Teacher, alongside members of Opus Dei led by Bishop Aringarosa. Evading the police, Langdon and Sophie travel to the Depository Bank of Zurich, discovering a safe deposit box opened by the Fibonacci sequence. Inside is a cryptex: a cylindrical container that hides a papyrus message which can only be accessed by spelling out a five-letter code word using dials. When the police arrive, Langdon and Sophie are aided by the bank manager Andre Vernet, only for him to take them hostage in the back of a truck, demanding the cryptex. Langdon disarms Vernet, and he flees with Sophie.The two visit Langdon's friend Sir Leigh Teabing, a Holy Grail expert, who claims the Grail is not a cup but instead Mary Magdalene, who was Jesus Christ's wife and pregnant during His Crucifixion, and the Priory was formed to protect their descendants. The Opus Dei have been trying to destroy the Grail to preserve the credibility of the Vatican. Silas breaks in, but Teabing knocks him out. The group escape to London via Teabing's private plane, aided by his butler Remy Jean. They travel to the Temple Church but the clue to unlocking the cryptex is a red herring. Silas is freed by Remy, who claims to be the Teacher, taking Teabing hostage and dumping him in his car's trunk while Silas hides out in an Opus Dei safe house. Teabing poisons Remy and send the police after Silas, who is shot by police after accidentally wounding Aringarosa, who is promptly arrested by Fache for using him to hunt Langdon.Langdon and Sophie are confronted by Teabing, revealed to be the Teacher, who wants to bring down the Church for centuries of persecution and deceit. The trio goes to Westminster Abbey to the tomb of Isaac Newton, a former grand master of the Priory. Langdon tosses the cryptex into the air, Teabing catching it but the papyrus destroyed. The police arrive to arrest Teabing, but he realizes Langdon removed and solved the cryptex's code beforehand. The code is revealed to be "apple" after the apocryphal myth of Newton's gravity-based discovery and the clue leads Langdon and Sophie to Rosslyn Chapel in Scotland.Inside, they discover Magdalene's tomb has been removed. Langdon realizes that Sophie's family died in a car crash, but the media reported she too died. Saunière was not her actual grandfather but her protector, and she is the last descendant of Jesus Christ. The two are greeted by several members of the Priory, including Sophie's grandmother, who promise to protect her. Langdon and Sophie part ways, the former returning to Paris. Whilst shaving, he cuts himself and has an epiphany when his blood curves down the sink, reminding him of the Rose Line. Realising the true meaning of the cryptex clue, he follows the line to the Louvre, discovering the Holy Grail, the sarcophagus of Mary Magdalene, is hidden beneath its iconic pyramid. Langdon kneels before it, as the Knights Templar did before him.