Final Destination 3 is a 2006 American supernatural horror film directed by James Wong and the third installment in the Final Destination film series. The screenplay was written by Wong and Glen Morgan, both of whom had worked on Final Destination. It stars Mary Elizabeth Winstead and Ryan Merriman, and is set five years[note 1] after the first film. Winstead plays Wendy Christensen, a teenager who has a premonition that a roller coaster on which she and her classmates are riding derails. Although she saves some of them, Death begins hunting for the survivors. Wendy realizes that photos she took in the amusement park contain clues about how her classmates will die, and she tries to use them to save the rest of the survivors.High-school student Wendy Christensen visits an amusement park with boyfriend Jason Wise, her best friend Carrie Dreyer and Carrie's boyfriend Kevin Fischer for their senior-class field trip. As they board the Devil's Flight roller coaster, Wendy has a premonition that the hydraulics securing the seat belts and coaster cars will fail during the ride and kill everyone on board. She panics, a fight breaks out and several people leave or are forced off the ride, including Kevin; best friends Ashley Freund and Ashlyn Halperin; alumnus Frankie Cheeks; athlete Lewis Romero, and goth couple Ian McKinley and Erin Ulmer. They see the roller coaster derail, killing the remaining passengers, including Jason and Carrie, leaving Wendy devastated.Several weeks later, Kevin tells Wendy about the explosion of Flight 180 and the subsequent deaths of the survivors. Thinking that Kevin is making fun of her, Wendy dismisses his theory and leaves. Ashley and Ashlyn are later killed in a tanning salon when their tanning beds short circuit. Then, a shelf falls, trapping them inside, and the girls are burned alive. Now convinced that Death is after them, Wendy and Kevin set out to save the remaining survivors using omens hidden in photos taken by Wendy on the night of the accident.Frankie dies next at a drive-through, when a runaway truck crashes into the back of Kevin's truck and the engine fan blows out. The next day, Wendy and Kevin try to save Lewis at the gym; he tells them that he does not believe them shortly before two weights from the weight training machine he is using swing down and crush him. Ian and Erin are working at a hardware store; Wendy saves Ian from being impaled by falling planks of wood, but Erin falls onto a nail gun and is shot repeatedly in the head. Ian, grief-stricken, resents Wendy.Wendy learns that her sister Julie and her friend were also on the roller coaster, and rushes to the county fair to save them. She and Kevin prevent Julie from being impaled on a harrow while being dragged by a panicky horse, and Wendy asks Julie who was sitting next to her on the roller coaster, since they are next on Death's list. Her question is quickly answered when Julie's friend, Perry Malinowski, is impaled by a flagpole launched by a rope tied to the horse. Wendy saves Kevin from an exploding propane canister and is confronted by a deranged Ian, who blames her for Erin's death. Fireworks go off and nearly hit Wendy, but she ducks and they strike a nearby cherry picker instead. Ian shouts that Death cannot kill him, and the cherry picker collapses and crushes him. Wendy thinks that the cherry picker was meant for her, but Ian inadvertently took her place.Five months later, Wendy is on a subway train with her roommate Laura and her friend Sean. When she sees more omens she begins to get off, but sees Julie entering the car and decides to stay. Wendy notices Kevin sitting in the back of the car. The train derails, and everyone aboard dies; Julie is hit by a stray wheel, Kevin is crushed between the train and the tunnel wall, and Wendy survives the crash but is hit by another train. This turns out to be another premonition, and they attempt to stop the train. The screen goes black, followed by the sound of screeching metal.