Flyboys is a 2006 British-American war drama film set during World War I, starring James Franco, Martin Henderson, Jean Reno, Jennifer Decker, David Ellison, Abdul Salis, Philip Winchester, and Tyler Labine. It was directed by Tony Bill, a pilot and aviation enthusiast.[3] The screenplay about men in aerial combat was written by Phil Sears, Blake T. Evans and David S. Ward with the screen story by Blake T. Evans. Themes of friendship, racial prejudice, revenge and love are also explored in the film.




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (October 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

In 1916, during World War I, a group of young Americans go to France, for different personal reasons, to fight in the French Air Service, L'Aéronautique militaire. These American recruits are under the command of French Captain Georges Thenault, with the veteran fighter ace Reed Cassidy as their mentor.During their training, each pilot struggles with the demanding flying; later, they have to face the aerial dogfights that dominate the front line missions. One of them, Blaine Rawlings meets a young woman named Lucienne whom he courts despite her hesitations about his risky profession. [N 1]On their first mission to escort two bombers to attack a German ammunition depot, the rookie pilots are ambushed by Germans and two are killed while flying; a third is forced to make an emergency landing. While on the ground he is killed by a ruthless German pilot identified as "The Black Falcon"; the more chivalrous German pilot Franz Wolferd shakes his head in disapproval.During a later battle, Rawlings' single machine gun jams; Wolferd—the pilot whom he had been chasing prior to the jam— flies beside Rawlings, before saluting and banking away toward home, sparing his opponent's life.Rawlings kills Wolferd when Wolferd dives after another American. After this, Rawlings is alarmed to learn that German forces are going to invade Lucienne's village. Despite others disapproving of his conduct, they let him go. He single-handedly rescues Lucienne and her two nephews and niece. He returns to base, and instead of being arrested for his misconduct, he is praised by their commander and awarded with the Croix de Guerre medal for bravery due to his courage.During an attack on a German Zeppelin, Reed Cassidy is mortally wounded by the Black Falcon but, as his final act, destroys the Zeppelin by crashing into it. Rawlings reunites with Lucienne before she leaves for Paris. Before Rawlings leaves for another battle, his plane is presented with an eagle, Cassidy's former insignia, and Rawlings is promoted to Commander. Their next mission is to escort four bombers which are being sent to bomb the same supply depot from the first mission.Upon returning from the bombing mission, Rawlings takes off again to exact revenge on the Black Falcon. He is followed soon after by Jensen, who has recovered from his shock and saves Rawlings. During the final battle, despite having jammed guns and being wounded, Rawlings evades his enemy and fatally shoots the Black Falcon with his pistol. Rawlings and three other pilots (Jensen, Skinner, and Beagle) survive the encounter and return to base.Jensen flies for the rest of the war and returns to Nebraska and receives a hero's welcome. Skinner enlists in the US Army but is kept from flying due to his race; he later joins the Airmail Service. Beagle marries an Italian woman and starts a flying circus. Rawlings goes to Paris but doesn't find Lucienne. He built one of the largest ranches in Texas; he never flies again.