The Great Warming is a 2006 documentary film directed by Michael Taylor. The film was hosted by Alanis Morissette and Keanu Reeves and even before its November 3, 2006 première helped establish an alliance between Democrats and Evangelicals trying to shake the administration out of its inertia on Climate change mitigation. It is also the anchor for a broad, pro-active coalition ranging from Friends of the Earth to Union of Concerned Scientists to Churches of Christ. Theatre giant Regal Cinemas released the film in its top 50 markets on the weekend of November 4 to November 5, 2006, which makes the launch three times larger than for any other film of its kind, and highlights the growing currency of the global warming issues in the mainstream.A special program was developed for faith communities, and the film was distributed to over 500 churches, synagogues and mosques across the US. Featuring elements of the 2005 Public Broadcasting Service special Global Warming: the Signs and the Science, The Great Warming (produced by the same team), it talks to key researchers and reports on social justice and day-to-day impacts as well as emission statistics. It's also populated with everyday people from all over the United States and the planet who are feeling the brunt of global warming, and/or finding innovative ways to tackle it. While making the movie, producer Karen Coshof was determined not to lose sight of her most important advocate, the person on the street, to make the issue of global warming resonate in every household around the globe. Every person should "feel empowered to act." In media interviews, Coshof explained that the film attracted an unprecedented coalition of leaders in science, religion, business, environmental activism and education. They have built bridges over historic gaps to support the message of this film to believe in the individual and collective moral responsibility to reverse the growing threats to the environment, and to the health and quality of life. The effort goes beyond the documentary: with a release timed just before the United States House elections, 2006, the website featured a Questions for Candidates link where voters could send a questionnaire on energy, environment, and taxation to their federal and state candidates. The campaign also includes a Call to Action signed by leaders from every arena of public life, and which can be signed online by anyone who chooses. Advance DVD screenings at schools, churches, and town halls across the country have already mobilized thousands of people to change personal habits and demand action, and coalition members are working to track the effort.