The Road to El Dorado is a 2000 American animated adventure musical[2] fantasy comedy film produced by DreamWorks Animation. It was directed by Eric "Bibo" Bergeron and Don Paul; Will Finn and David Silverman directed additional sequences. The film stars Kevin Kline, Kenneth Branagh, Armand Assante, Jim Cummings, Edward James Olmos, Tobin Bell and Rosie Perez. The soundtrack features songs by Elton John and Tim Rice, as well as composers Hans Zimmer and John Powell.In Spain 1519, two con artists, Tulio and Miguel, win a map to the legendary City of Gold, El Dorado, in a rigged gamble. After their con is exposed, the two evade the guards and hide aboard one of the ships to be led by Hernán Cortés for the New World. During the voyage, they are caught as stowaways and imprisoned, but manage to break free and take a rowboat with the help of Cortés' horse, Altivo.Later, they land on an unknown shore at the edge of Mexico, and Miguel begins to recognize landmarks from the map, leading them to a totem marker near a large waterfall believing it to be a dead end. They encounter and discover a native woman named Chel being chased by the guards. When the guards see Tulio and Miguel riding Altivo as depicted on the totem, they escort them to a secret entrance behind the falls, along with Chel, and into a city truly made of gold, El Dorado. They are brought to the city's elders, kind-hearted Chief Tannabok and wicked high priest Tzekel-Kan. Tzekel-Kan, seeking to seize the city from Tannabok, insists that the two, mistaken as gods, demonstrate their powers. Tulio and Miguel bicker between themselves while a nearby volcano begins to erupt. When Tulio yells at Miguel to stop pestering him, the volcano suddenly stops erupting and the citizens take it as proof of their godhood. Celebrations are held, and the pair are given luxurious quarters to stay, along with charge of Chel. Chel discovers the two are conning the people but promises to remain quiet if they take her with them when they leave the city. The two are showered with gifts of gold from Tannabok, but disapprove of Tzekel-Kan attempting to sacrifice a civilian as the gods' ritual.Tulio asks Tannabok to build them a boat that will allow them to leave the city with all the gifts they have been given, which will take three days. Miguel explores the city, allowing Chel to get romantically close to Tulio. Miguel comes to appreciate the peaceful life that the citizens seem to enjoy, and joins in with some of their activities. When Tzekel-Kan sees Miguel playing a ball game with children, he insists the gods demonstrate their powers against the city's best players in the same game. Tulio and Miguel are far outmatched, but Chel is able to substitute the ball with an armadillo named Bibo, allowing them to win. Miguel spares the ritual of sacrificing the losing team and chastises Tzekel-Kan, much to the crowd's approval. Tzekel-Kan notices Miguel received a small cut and realizes the two are not gods, because gods do not bleed. Tzekel-Kan conjures a giant stone jaguar to chase them through the city. As Tulio and Miguel argue over their differences, they manage to outwit the jaguar, causing it and Tzekel-Kan to fall into a giant whirlpool, thought to be the entrance to Xibalba. Tzekel-Kan then surfaces in the jungle, where he encounters Cortés and his men, thinking Cortés is a god. He offers to lead them to El Dorado.With the boat completed, Miguel states his intention to stay in the city. Tulio and Chel board the boat, when they see smoke on the horizon and realize Cortés is close. Tulio and Chel make a strategy using the boat to ram rock pillars under the waterfall and block the main entrance to the city. The plan succeeds with the citizens pulling over a statue in the boat's wake to give it enough speed. As the statue starts to fall too quickly, Tulio has difficulty in preparing the boat's sail. Deciding not to stay in the city, Miguel and Altivo jump onto the boat to unfurl the sails, assuring that the boat clears the statue in time. The group successfully crashes against the pillars, collapsing the cave but causing them to lose all of their gifts in the process. They end up near the totem and hide, just as Cortés' men and Tzekel-Kan arrive. When Tzekel-Kan finds the blocked entrance, Cortés accuses him as a liar, and Tzekel-Kan is taken prisoner as they leave.Tulio and Miguel, though disappointed they lost the gold, take off in a different direction for a new adventure with Chel, unaware that Altivo still wears the golden horseshoes he was outfitted with in El Dorado.