Hood of Horror (a.k.a. Snoop Dogg's Hood of Horror) is a horror film adaptation of a fictional comic book, which is an anthology of three short tales set in an urban milieu in a style reminiscent of Tales from the Crypt and Tales from the Hood. It was the "secret" ninth film screened in the 8 Films to Die For film festival on November 19, 2006. It opened worldwide in theaters on May 4, 2007.The animated introduction revolves around how Devon (voiced by Snoop Dogg) becomes a Hound of Hell, in which he agreed to sell his soul to a demon named Liore (voiced by Hawthorne James) to bring back his dead sister (whom he has accidentally killed). Liore grants him knowledge, strength, and the power to decide who goes to heaven or hell for an unspecified period of time. The animation is switched out showing Devon as a real person, as he narrates the stories.Crossed Out[edit]A female tagger named Posie (Daniella Alonso) is given the power of death by a mysterious Derelict (Danny Trejo) (another Hound of Hell), who captures her while she tries to escape from some gang members (Teyo Johnson, Noel Gugliemi and Jeffrey Licon). With it, any tag she "crosses out" causes the gruesome demise of the original tagger. She later suffers the ultimate price when she loses sight of her calling as an artist and starts to abuse her power. The Derelict told her that she could have broken the cycle of murder and violence in her city, but instead she made it worse. He takes the power away and sics the recently deceased gang members on her. They lodge a spray-paint can in her head and spray the wall with her blood into a beautiful mural. A service is given for Posie and her beautiful flower mural, while Devon and Derelict watch on in human disguises.The Scumlord[edit]A racist white couple, Tex Woods Jr. (Anson Mount) and Tiffany (Brande Roderick), are given the chance at inheritance when Tex's father, Tex Woods Sr. (Chuck Hicks) dies "mysteriously". But in order for them to receive the inheritance, they have to live with some black Vietnam vets (Ernie Hudson, Richard Gant, Tucker Smallwood and L. Kenneth Richardson) that served under Tex's father for a year. Instead of learning tolerance and respect from the vets, Tex and Tiffany just harass them and force them to work. When they start to cause casualties, they soon become victims to their unhappy house mates. After Tiffany ironically dies by stomach explosion from caviar and Tex Woods Jr.'s demise, the remaining housemates gain the inheritance of their friend Tex Woods and celebrate. Soon, Devon, who is now revealed to be the new landlord, greets them and congratulates them on their new wealth. However, it's short lived when Tiffany's dog starts barking at Devon, who shoots it in anger, then calmly saying, "No pets allowed."Rapsody Askew[edit]A new rapper named SOD (Pooch Hall) is finally starting to gain recognition and fame. During an awards show after party, he is confronted by Clara (Lin Shaye), a mysterious woman who seemingly stops time (implying she too is a Hound of Hell). She shows him videos from his up-and-coming days: from when he first met Quon (Aries Spears) (another up-coming MC) to Quon's last day when he was gunned down in a liquor store by a masked burglar. During that life, Quon was always there acting as a big brother usually defending SOD when his ego got out of line. Quon was offered a solo career after SOD's behavior was out of control, but Quon refused and stayed with SOD. When SOD denies having anything to do with his death, Quon enters the room. Back from the dead, Quon knows it was really SOD and Jersey (Diamond Dallas Page) (SOD's manager) who were behind his death revealing the elaborate plot of SOD wearing a bulletproof vest as well as Jersey being the gunman as an act of betrayal and act of fame. Quon then brutally kills Jersey and frames SOD, who is then gunned down by the police.Epilogue[edit]During all the stories, Devon tells the audience that each character had the potential to do good in life, but instead, chose to do evil for their own needs that resulted in each of their deaths. After each segment, he takes all the deceased characters to a mysterious elevator. First pulling Posie out of her mural, then dragging Tex Woods Jr. by the horn which is embedded in his neck with his partner dragging Tiffany afterwards. After claiming SOD, Devon takes SOD, Posie, Tex Wood Jr., and Tiffany and sends all of them to a one-way ticket straight to hell, where all of them are further tormented.