Hoot is a 2006 American family comedy film, based on Carl Hiaasen's novel of the same name. It was written and directed by Wil Shriner, and produced by New Line Cinema and Walden Media. The film stars Luke Wilson, Logan Lerman, Brie Larson, Tim Blake Nelson, Neil Flynn and Robert Wagner. The film was released on May 5, 2006. The film was a box office bomb in its initial theatrical run, and received largely mixed to negative reviews from notable film critics and film-review websites.Middle school student Roy A. Eberhardt (Logan Lerman) and his family have just moved to Coconut Creek, Florida from Montana. But Roy is mercilessly teased and bullied at his new school by Dana Matherson, until he accidentally breaks Matherson's nose while getting harassed on the school bus. Roy gets suspended from riding the school bus for three days and must write Dana an apology letter. Roy slowly becomes friends with Beatrice "The Bear" Leep (Brie Larson), and her stepbrother, "Mullet Fingers" (Cody Linley).Meanwhile, someone is responsible for vandalism on a local construction site where a "Mother Paula's Pancake House" restaurant, owned by corrupt CEO Chuck Muckle (Clark Gregg), is about to be built. In order to catch the vandals and prevent further vandalism, Officer David Delinko (Luke Wilson) has parked his police cruiser on the building site. Delinko falls asleep and an unknown vandal vandalizes the car by spray painting its windows with black spray paint. The next day at breakfast, Roy and his parents read about the spray painted police car. The police chief then gives Delinko a small police scooter to replace the vandalized cruiser.Soon, it is learned that in order to build the pancake house, they must first destroy the burrowing owls living on site. Mullet Fingers, Beatrice and Roy embark on a crusade to save the endangered owls. Mullet Fingers continually sabotages construction efforts on the site. Leroy 'Curly' Branitt (Tim Blake Nelson), the inept construction foreman, is trying to keep the construction schedule going, despite the presence of the owls.In the end, the trio reveals to Delinko and the rest of the town that there are burrowing owls on the lot. They then manage to get everyone to be quiet long enough for the owls to emerge, and Muckle is subsequently arrested by Delinko. The construction site eventually becomes an owl preserve.Ultimately Roy's parents decide to stay in Florida, Officer Delinko finally gets promoted to detective, Dana goes to military camp, Muckle does community service for months, and Roy continues to be friends with Beatrice and Mullet Fingers.