Little Man is a 2006 American comedy film written, produced and directed by Keenen Ivory Wayans, and also written and produced by Wayans Brothers Marlon and Shawn Wayans, who also both starred in the lead roles. The film co-stars Kerry Washington, John Witherspoon, Tracy Morgan and Lochlyn Munro.


This article needs an improved plot summary. (October 2015)

The film starts off with Calvin "Babyface" Simms (Marlon Wayans) who is a very short convict. He is seen getting released and planning a robbery to steal a diamond with the help of his goofball cohort Percy (Tracy Morgan). After the successful robbery, the duo are almost arrested, but not before Calvin manages to stash the diamond in a nearby woman's purse. The thieves follow the handbag's owner to her home where they discover a couple, Darryl (Shawn Wayans) and Vanessa Edwards (Kerry Washington), who are eager to have a child.Calvin and Percy hatch a plot to pass Calvin off as a baby left on the couple's doorstep. After seeing Calvin, Darryl and Vanessa, wanting a child, immediately adopt the baby as their own. However, Vanessa's dad Francis "Pops" (John Witherspoon) has a bad feeling about Calvin. Friends of the couple find Calvin odd as well. Soon, Calvin warms up to the family. A local goon named Walken (Chazz Palminteri), discovers the deception and demands the diamond from Percy. Percy arrives at the house that Calvin is staying in, and convinces Walken's henchmen that Darryl is his partner. Walken and his henchmen go to the house and they keep Calvin and Darryl hostage. In a series of comedic maneuvers, Calvin manages to rescue Darryl and have Walken arrested. Darryl is given a substantial reward for the recovery of the diamond, and since Calvin saved his life, he doesn't turn him over to the police.Before he leaves, Calvin thanks Darryl for taking care of him even though he wasn't really a baby and admits that he thinks Darryl would make a great father for a real child someday. Calvin is about to be out of Darryl's life for good, as Darryl watches him leave. Calvin is crying hysterically, so Darryl decides to let Calvin stay and from that point on, the two men become the best of friends. The film ends at some point in the future with Calvin and Pops playing with Darryl and Vanessa's real baby, who looks exactly like Darryl (Shawn Wayans's face superimposed on that of the baby). And they all lived happily ever after.