Battlefield Earth (also referred to as Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000) is a 2000 American science fiction action film based upon the first half of L. Ron Hubbard's 1982 novel of the same name. Directed by Roger Christian and starring John Travolta, Barry Pepper and Forest Whitaker, the film depicts an Earth that has been under the rule of the alien Psychlos for 1,000 years and tells the story of the rebellion that develops when the Psychlos attempt to use the surviving humans as gold miners.[3]In the year 3000, Earth is a desolate wasteland. The Psychlos, a brutal race of giant humanoid aliens, have ruled the planet for a thousand years, and use human slave labor to strip its minerals and other resources. A few tribes of humans live in freedom in remote, hidden areas, but after ten centuries of Psychlo oppression they have abandoned any hope of regaining control of their planet. Jonnie Goodboy Tyler (Barry Pepper) rejects this universal hopelessness and leaves his tribe in the Rocky Mountains on a journey of exploration with a nomad hunter named Carlo (Kim Coates). Both are captured by a Psychlo raiding party and transported to a slave camp in the ruins of Denver, Colorado, the Psychlos' principal base of operations. A massive dome over the base protects the Psychlos from Earth's atmosphere, which is toxic to them.At the camp they meet Terl (John Travolta), the Psychlo security chief, and his deputy, Ker (Forest Whitaker). Terl is stranded permanently at his remote Earth outpost due to an unexplained incident involving "the Senator's daughter". He plans to bribe his way back to the Psychlo home planet by mining gold in areas of high radioactivity. Psychlos avoid such areas because radiation reacts explosively with the gas mixture that they breathe. Terl selects Jonnie to lead the mining operation. Jonnie acquires a comprehensive knowledge of human history and literature in a Psychlo rapid-learning machine, and is particularly inspired by the Declaration of Independence. He defiantly declares that one day, humans will overthrow the Psychlos and retake their planet. An amused Terl boasts that the Psychlos conquered all of Earth in only nine minutes during the 21st century. He gives Jonnie a party of slaves and a Psychlo flying shuttle and orders him to find gold.Jonnie locates a plentiful supply at the long-abandoned Fort Knox. He also discovers an abandoned underground military base with working aircraft, weapons, and fuel. While they are supposed to be laboring in the mines, Jonnie and his followers plot a revolution, and use the military base's flight simulators to train themselves in aerial combat.After a week of training, the rebels launch their attack. In a suicide mission, Carlo flies his Harrier jump-jet into the Denver dome, destroying it and suffocating the Psychlos inside. Jonnie captures a teleportation device and uses it to teleport a dirty bomb to the Psychlo home world. When it detonates, the radiation it releases reacts catastrophically with the Psychlo atmosphere, destroying all life on the planet. The humans have retaken Earth, but face an uncertain future. The sole Psychlo survivors are Terl, who is imprisoned inside Fort Knox in a makeshift cell of gold bars; and Ker, who joins the victorious humans in their challenging project to rebuild their civilization.[3]