Material Girls is a 2006 American teen comedy film starring Hilary and Haylie Duff, Anjelica Huston, Lukas Haas, Maria Conchita Alonzo, and Brent Spiner. It is based on a script written by John Quaintance and is directed by Martha Coolidge. It is loosely based on Jane Austen's 1811 novel Sense and Sensibility, updating the setting to modern Los Angeles. It is co-produced by Patriot Pictures and Maverick Films.


This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (September 2016)

Tanzania "Tanzie" (Hilary Duff) and Ava (Haylie Duff), two rich, spoiled Hollywood socialite sisters who enjoy material things such as shopping and dating, rather than caring about the family cosmetics company Marchetta Cosmetics which was founded by Victor Manchetta (Philip Casnoff). When Victor passes away and Tanzie and Ava's mother married to a prince, Marchetta Cosmetics is run by its co-founder and family friend Tommy Katzenbach (Brent Spiner). One year later, Tanzie plans to go to college in the future and Ava is planning to announce her engagement with fiancè Mic (Brandon Beemer) to the public, despite having been engaged months ago.When a major media scandal involving their father's night cream causing extreme skin conditions breaks out on the news, the press soon mob the girls, causing theirs and their father's reputation destroyed, forcing them to stay inside. Soon, an accidental fire starts in their mansion. Ava quickly grabs her engagement party dress and some miscellaneous objects. Tanzie, on the other hand, takes her father's TiVo which had a recording of her father talking about his cosmetics on the news and doesn't grab any clothes. They leave for a hotel and soon learn all their credit cards have been shut down, leaving the girls completely broke. So they go and stay with their maid and close family friend Inez (María Conchita Alonso) in her small apartment and their car gets stolen by two guys (Joel Madden and Benji Madden) they mistakenly took them for valets.The next morning, Ava and Tanzie take a bus to Ava's engagement party. They go to Ava’s engagement party, where they see Etienne make a break for it once they see the girls arrive, realizing that their friends only liked them for their money and reputation. Ava also finds out that Mic has dumped her, though it was done through Mic’s agent Sol (Larry Poindexter). Tommy plans to persuade the board of directors to sell the their Marchetta Cosmetics to their biggest competitor Fabiella (Anjelica Huston) for over $60 million. The girls however, are tempted to listen to their advisors as they all agree to sell the company to Fabiella and gives them 30 days to make the deal official. After the company's lab technician/chemist Rick (Marcus Coloma) gets them away from the press, Ava and Tanzie decide to make their own investigation by asking legal clinic lawyer Henry (Lukas Haas). He refuses to help them as he thinks they can help themselves for being high privileged.Although this means that they could return to the extravagant lifestyle they were accustomed to, they decide to honor their father's memory by trying to turn it around themselves. The girls decide to get to the root of the scandal.When they track down the cat lady who was the source of the allegations, they learn from a neighbor that she was in fact born with a skin disease that caused her disfiguration and had just received surgery for it. With what they have learned, the girls successfully manage to clear the Marchetta name and reclaim the company when they revealed that Tommy was behind the scandal and plotted to sell the company to Fabiella at a cheap price when she, Tommy, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and some other people meet with them. With help from the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Ava and Tanzie remove Tommy as the CEO.Nearly six months after the scandal began, the girls are seen leading the company, with Ava as the new CEO and Tanzie working as a chemist with them both finding their true loves. For Tanzie, it was Rick. For Ava, it was Henry.