Sexy Beast is a 2000 British crime film and the directorial debut of Jonathan Glazer. Glazer had previously directed music videos and commercials for companies such as Guinness and Levi's. The film stars Ray Winstone, Ben Kingsley and Ian McShane.Ex-con and expert safe-cracker Gary "Gal" Dove (Ray Winstone) completed his prison time and has happily retired to a Spanish villa with his beloved ex–porn star wife DeeDee (Amanda Redman). He shares the company of long-time best friend Aitch (Cavan Kendall) and his wife Jackie (Julianne White). Two scenes foreshadow an end to his peace: a large boulder nearly hits him and lands in the pool damaging its tile double-heart insignia. After a hunt where he and his friends fail to bag a rabbit, Gal has a dream of a man with a terrifying rabbit's head pointing a gun at him.The arrival of sociopathic old criminal associate, Don Logan (Ben Kingsley), intent on enlisting Gal in a bank heist back in London shatters his serenity. Teddy Bass (Ian McShane), a powerful crime lord, learned about the bank's vault from Harry (James Fox), the bank's chairman whom he met at an orgy. Gal politely but firmly declines Logan's many progressively threatening then violent demands he join. After Gal suggests Logan's real reason is his obsessive infatuation with Jackie, Logan grows furious then demands to be taken to the airport. On the plane, Logan refuses to put out his cigarette prior to take-off and is ejected. A seething Logan returns to Gal's home screaming obscenities, threatens to kill Gal then smashes a glass beer bottle against Gal's head. The scene cuts with DeeDee aiming a shotgun at Don who merely looks at her with hate.The scene shifts to Gal returns in London. When asked by Bass about Logan's whereabouts, Gal feigns ignorance and claims Logan had called him "from Heathrow." In the morning, over breakfast, Gal has another vision of the man with the terrifying rabbit's head approaching and pointing a shotgun at him. He then sees Bass who sits, smiles, and questions him further. Bass reveals that he knows Don got off the plane while still in Spain. Gal continues to feign any knowledge of this and insists that Don claimed to call him from Heathrow.During the heist, Bass' crew use surface-supplied diving gear to drill into Harry's bank vault from a pool in a neighbouring bath house. As he drills, Gal recalls in his mind what happened at his home: DeeDee shoots Logan with a shotgun, incapacitating him. Jackie, and Gal join in beating him. Aitch remains too scared to act despite pleas from DeeDee, Gal, and Jackie. A still alive Don looks at Aitch and announces, "I fucked her," meaning Jackie. Aitch picks up a television set, announces, "Now I've fucked you!" and brings it down on Don's head.Breaking through the wall, the water from the pool floods the vault and shorts its security system. While helping to empty the vault's safe deposit boxes, Gal secretly pockets a pair of large ruby earrings encrusted with diamonds. After the job is successfully completed Bass insists on driving Gal to the airport. Along the way, stops by Harry's home. Inside, Bass kills Harry in cold blood and immediately and pointedly questions Gal again about Logan. Gal merely responds, "I'm not into this any more." Back in the car, Bass suggests he knows what happened to Logan, saying first, "If I cared, Gal. If I fucking cared. If I gave a solitary fuck about Don Logan!" then "Spain, eh? I must drop in sometime. Pay my respects." He pays Gal £10 for his services--giving Gal a £20 note and demanding change--then tells him to get out of the car and drives away.In the final scene, back in Spain, Gal is again home surrounded by his friends and by DeeDee, who is seen wearing the ruby-diamond earrings that he stole. Gal hears Don's voice tell him that he knew Gal would do the job. In his mind, Gal responds that Don is dead now and can finally shut up. The scene zooms into the double-heart insignia at the bottom of their pool to reveal a coffin. The man with the scary rabbit's head kicks open the coffin to reveal a smoking Don. Don looks at him and exhales his smoke with contempt.