Rocky Balboa also known as Rocky VI is a 2006 American sports drama film written, directed by, and starring Sylvester Stallone. The film, which features Stallone as underdog boxer Rocky Balboa, is the sixth film in the Rocky series that began with the Academy Award-winning Rocky thirty years earlier in 1976. The film portrays an aging Balboa in retirement, a widower living in Philadelphia, and the owner and operator of a local Italian restaurant called "Adrian's," named after his late wife.In 2006, Rocky, in his mid-fifties and retired from boxing after twenty years, lives a quiet life as a widower, Adrian having died from cancer several years prior. He now runs a small but successful Italian restaurant named after her, where he regales his patrons with stories of his past. He also battles personal demons involving his grief over Adrian's death, the changing times, and his eroding relationship with his son Robert, who has moved out to become a struggling corporate employee. Paulie, Rocky's brother-in-law and longtime friend, continues to support him whenever he can, but is constantly overridden with guilt over his poor treatment towards his late sister.Late one night, Rocky reunites with a woman named Marie, who was a once mischievous neighborhood girl long ago, now working as a bartender at a tavern Rocky once frequented, and a single parent of a teenage son born out of wedlock: Stephenson, nicknamed "Steps". Rocky's friendship with the two (where Steps takes to Rocky as his father figure) quickly blossoms over the following weeks, providing him a much-needed buffer for his anguish. Meanwhile, on the professional boxing circuit, the newly crowned world heavyweight champion, Mason "The Line" Dixon, reigns undefeated, but is often ridiculed for beating only "bum" fighters, having never gone up against a true contender. This frustrates the champ, causing tension with the public and his promoters, and encouraging him to return to his roots, the small gym he first trained in, as well as his old trainer who sagely tells him that, inevitably, he will earn back his respect through a true opponent. Their relationship mirrors Rocky and Mickey.ESPN broadcasts a computer simulation of a fight between Rocky (in his prime) and Mason, likened to a modern-day version of The Super Fight that ends in a disputed KO victory for Balboa, further riling the champ. In contrast, the simulation inspires Rocky to take up boxing again—an intention that goes public when he successfully renews his boxing license. Dixon's promoters thus pitch the idea of holding a charity exhibition bout at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas to bolster Dixon's floundering popularity. With some hesitation, both men agree to the match, creating a media buzz that stabs at Rocky's has-been status and Dixon's credibility. Robert later makes an effort to discourage Rocky from fighting, blaming his own personal failings on his father's celebrity shadow, but Rocky rebukes him with some profound advice; that to succeed in life, "it ain't about how hard you hit; it's about how hard you can get hit, and keep moving forward", and that blaming others won't help him. The next day, father and son meet over Adrian's grave and reconcile; Robert announces he has quit his job to be at Rocky's side. Rocky sets straight to training with Apollo Creed's old trainer, Duke, who quickly surmises that the slow and arthritic Rocky can only compete by building his strength and punching power as much as possible.The bout itself is a back and forth affair, with Dixon easily dominating the first round only to injure his left hand in the second one on Rocky's hip, after which Rocky makes a dramatic comeback, surprising the audience with his prowess and chin despite his age. The two opponents beat each other severely throughout the full ten rounds, ending with both men still standing. Rocky thanks an appreciative Dixon for the fight, and leaves the ring to the adulation of the crowd as the result is announced: it is a win for Dixon by split decision, but Rocky clearly doesn't mind.In the closing shot, Rocky returns home and visits Adrian's grave again, thanking her for helping him; "Yo Adrian, we did it. We did it."