Silent Hill is a 2006 Canadian[3][4] supernatural psychological horror film directed by Christophe Gans and written by Roger Avary, Gans, and Nicolas Boukhrief. The film is an adaptation of Konami's survival horror video game series Silent Hill. The film, particularly its emotional, religious, and aesthetic content, includes elements from the first, second, third, and fourth games in the series. It stars Radha Mitchell, Sean Bean, Laurie Holden, Deborah Kara Unger, Kim Coates, Tanya Allen, Alice Krige, and Jodelle Ferland.Rose Da Silva (Radha Mitchell) and her husband Christopher (Sean Bean) are disturbed by their adopted daughter Sharon’s (Jodelle Ferland) constant sleepwalking and nightmares about Silent Hill, a town that was abandoned 30 years ago due to a massive coal seam fire. Against Christopher’s wishes, Rose takes Sharon on a trip to Silent Hill to find answers. Her erratic behaviour concerns police officer Cybil Bennett (Laurie Holden). Rose flees from Cybil, but when a girl steps out into the road, Rose crashes and blacks out. Waking up some time later, Rose finds herself in the foggy dimension of Silent Hill and realises that Sharon is missing.Exploring the town for Sharon, Rose pursues the same girl she encountered prior to the crash, but the town transitions into a nightmarish dimension inhabited by inhuman monsters, including the fearsome Pyramid Head (Roberto Campanella). Rose learns of the existence of Alessa Gillespie (Jodelle Ferland), a young girl burnt by the Brethren, the town's fanatical cult. Her mother Dahlia (Deborah Kara Unger) wanders the streets as an outcast, guilty for her negligence that led to Alessa’s doom. Rose is later joined by Cybil, also trapped in the foggy dimension of the town due to a giant fracture isolating Silent Hill. Meanwhile in the real world, Christopher searches the abandoned town with policeman Thomas Gucci (Kim Coates), but their search is in vain. Upon finding a photo of Alessa, Christopher goes to the orphanage where Sharon was adopted. Gucci appears, revealing he lived in Silent Hill and saved Alessa from the fire. He encourages Christopher to end his search and go home.Rose and Cybil explore a hotel the Brethren once used, accompanied by Anna (Tanya Allen), a Brethren member, where they find the burnt remains of a ceremonial chamber. Rose also encounters the girl, revealed to be Dark Alessa (Jodelle Ferland), who resembles a burnt Sharon. When the town transitions into a nightmarish dimension, Rose, Cybil, and Anna flee to an old church but Pyramid Head emerges and skins Anna alive. Inside, Christabella (Alice Krige), the high priestess of the Brethren, and Alessa’s aunt, suggests a “demon” knows where Sharon is. Her followers lead Rose and Cybil to a hospital, claiming the demon is in the basement. Christabella sees a photo of Sharon from Rose's locket and brands Rose and Cybil as "witches" due to Sharon resembling Alessa. Cybil fights the Brethren members but Christabella orders them to violently beat her.Rose enters the basement but is barricaded by a group of knife-wielding nurses. She flees and enters Alessa's room in time. In a flashback, it is revealed that Alessa was stigmatised by the townspeople for being a bastard. One day, after being molested in an attempt to hide from her tormentors, Christabella convinces Dahlia, a formerly devout Brethren member, to "purify" Alessa. Christabella later immolates Alessa during a ritual but Dahlia realises this and alerts Gucci. They arrive too late as Alessa's body knocks over a fire pit, igniting the infamous coal seam fire. Hospitalised, Alessa's rage grew, manifested as Dark Alessa, who is responsible for the shifting dimensions of Silent Hill. Her remaining innocence is later manifested as Sharon, who is taken to the real world to be adopted. Desperate to find Sharon, Rose allows Dark Alessa to grant access to the church by fusing with her body. Meanwhile, Sharon, protected by Dahlia, is captured by the Brethren.In the church, Christabella burns Cybil to death and plans to do the same for Sharon. Rose intervenes and confronts Christabella of her crimes but she stabs her in the throat in retaliation. Rose’s blood summons both the original Alessa (Lorry Ayers) and Dark Alessa, who bisect and kill Christabella and her followers, except for Dahlia, with barbed wire. Rose rescues Sharon but she unwillingly merges with Dark Alessa before blacking out. Rose leaves the town with a fully merged Alessa and return home, still in the foggy dimension of Silent Hill. Meanwhile, Christopher is alone in the real world but discovers that the front door has mysteriously opened.