Simon Says is a 2006 horror film, directed by William Dear (Angels in the Outfield, Harry and the Hendersons) and stars Crispin Glover and Margo Harshman. It was premiered at Fantastic Fest on 24 September 2006 and on DVD in the U.S. 26 June 2009.In the forest, Leanne and Clay are making out. Their friends Sam, Sarah, Lani, Will and Jenny are watching them and giggling. Leanne and Clay discover them and get angry. Leanne and Clay leave the campsite in the group's van. The others begin drinking and laughing around a campfire. An unseen attacker axes Will while he is urinating and impales Sam and Sarah while they are having sex. Lani and Jenny find the bodies and flee the camp. They find Leanne dead and Clay dying in the van. The killer then shoots Lani in the head with an arrow. Jenny hides in the van with Clay, but the film cuts to the title sequence before their fates are revealed.Five teenagers — Kate (Margo Harshman), Zack (Greg Cipes), Vicky, Riff, and Ashley — are on their way to pan for gold during Spring Break when they make a wrong turn. They encounter two strange men, Pig and Garth, who warn them to return home, saying there have been murders in the area. Making their way into town, four of the teens head inside a store, where they meet brothers Simon (Crispin Glover) and Stanley.Simon is unhelpful, denying the teens requests to buy anything. Frustrated, the group leaves and finds a campsite. Unbeknownst to them, there is someone observing the teens, dressed in a ghillie suit. He chases Ashley through the woods before realizing that she is not 'dream girl' and murders her. The attacker - revealed to be Stanley - begins to cut up her body, saying that he will make her into a present for 'dream girl'.Back at the store, Zack arrives to find it closed and empty. He lets himself in and discovers numerous bodies hanging from the ceiling, including those of Pig, Garth and Clay, as well as a still-living Jenny tied up. Zack frees Jenny and pulls several newspaper articles off the bodies. Zack and Jenny attempt to leave, but Jenny is killed when she accidentally triggers a spike trap. Zack then flees the store, using Jenny's corpse as a bridge over a pit. After dark, Simon arrives and tells the teens Stanley is missing. At this moment, a terrified Zack arrives and manages to convince Simon to leave. The teens find their van's tires punctured, stranding them.The group heads into the forest to look for Ashley and discover that Stanley has made a 'doll' out of Ashley's head, hands, and feet. They are watched by Stanley, who kills Riff, while Simon kills Vicky. Kate is stopped by Simon in his truck, who lies and tells her that the others are safe at his store. Zack sneaks up and climbs into the truck bed as Kate gets into the truck. While they are driving, Simon explains that he and Stanley have lived in the area their entire lives with their parents Quinn and Carrie, and took over the gas station when Quinn and Carrie died. Simon takes Kate to an old campsite where two long-decayed bodies are sitting at a picnic table. He ties her to the table when Stanley appears in his ghillie suit. Suspicious, Simon chops off several of Stanley's fingers with a cleaver, and it's revealed that it is actually Zack in the suit, trying to masquerade as Stanley.Simon ties Zack to a tree and tortures him. Zack confesses his love to Kate calling her his 'Dream Girl.' This angers Simon and he burns Zack alive. Turning back to Kate, Simon announces that he is also Stanley, having taken over his brother's identity after murdering Quinn and Carrie while the real Stanley is in a coma. Kate seduces Simon, distracting him; he accidentally frees her in the ensuing struggle, allowing her to flee.Returning to Zack's charred body, Kate promises to kill Simon. Moments later, Simon also approaches the body, vowing to kill her. Kate bursts from Zack's corpse where she was hiding, bringing the cleaver down on Simon's head. He falls to the ground, but when she looks down at where his corpse should be, he is gone. A hand reaches for her just before the film cuts to black.The film ends with another group of youths arriving at the store. One of the girls, who is pregnant, asks Simon if he has any toys for babies. Simon goes into the back room and opens a trapdoor, revealing Kate tied up with infant twins. He then takes a rattle out of the compartment and gives it to the girl. After the kids leave, Simon returns to the back room and Kate suddenly axes him in the head before the screen cuts to black.