Superman Returns is a 2006 American superhero film directed and produced by Bryan Singer. It is based on the DC Comics character Superman and serves as a homage sequel to the motion pictures Superman (1978) and Superman II (1980),[1][2] while ignoring the events of Superman III (1983) and Superman IV: The Quest for Peace (1987).[1] The film stars Brandon Routh as Clark Kent/Superman, Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane, Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor, with James Marsden, Frank Langella, and Parker Posey. The film tells the story of the title character returning to Earth after a five-year absence. He finds that his love interest Lois Lane has moved on with her life, and that his archenemy Lex Luthor is plotting a scheme that will destroy Superman and the world.For the previous five years, Superman (Brandon Routh) has mysteriously abandoned his adopted home of Earth while on a journey into outer space to investigate what astronomers believed to be an intact Krypton. In his absence, journalist and past love Lois Lane (Kate Bosworth) wrote a scathing article "Why the World Doesn't Need Superman," winning her the Pulitzer Prize, and became engaged to Richard White (James Marsden), who is the nephew of Daily Planet editor-in-chief Perry White (Frank Langella), and with whom she shares a young asthmatic son, Jason (Tristan Lake Leabu). Notorious criminal mastermind Lex Luthor (Kevin Spacey) secured an early release from prison due to Superman not appearing as a prosecution witness during his trial. By seducing an old heiress, Luthor is able to inherit her fortune, giving him resources for his next scheme.Superman returns to Earth, crash landing at the Kent farm, just as he did as a child. He reveals to his foster mother Martha Kent that he left hoping to find his home world, and expresses his dismay at being the only one of his kind remaining. Upon returning to Metropolis in his human identity of Clark Kent, Superman is shocked to discover the consequences of his disappearance. When a mysterious nationwide power outage causes catastrophic failures aboard an in-sky space shuttle launch which Lois is covering, Clark realizes he must reemerge to the world as Superman. Saving the shuttle and its ferry jet in highly public fashion causes a resurgence of media attention focused on his return. Unbeknownst to anyone, the accident was triggered by Luthor using Kryptonian technology stolen from the Fortress of Solitude.The villain then has his moll Kitty (Parker Posey) distract Superman, allowing Lex to steal a sample of kryptonite from a museum. Investigating the blackout, Lois tracks the hypocenter to the mansion Luthor recently inherited and, along with her son, boards the yacht docked there, hoping to find answers. Discovering Luthor, she is held captive as the yacht makes way out to sea, and the crook's plan is revealed as a real estate scam: using the Kryptonian crystal technology Superman used to create his Fortress of Solitude, Lex plans to create a massive new continent which would swallow the current land masses of Earth, forcing the world to use his new land. Placing a crystal inside a shell of refined kryptonite, Luthor triggers the new land growth by launching it into the sea.



The Fortress of Solitude as depicted in the film.

Lois manages to use a fax machine onboard the yacht to send their location and a call for help to the Daily Planet headquarters where it catches the attention of Clark and Richard. Upon discovering her attempt at subversion, one of Luthor's henchmen attacks Lois, causing Jason to crush him with a piano. Realizing that Jason is Superman's son, Luthor and his thugs escape by helicopter as the new landmass emerges from the ocean and the resulting earthquake effects span back to Metropolis. While Superman works to contain the damage to the city, Richard reaches the yacht by way of floatplane and releases Lois and Jason from their locked room, but is quickly trapped in with them as the ship is split in two by the growing rock formations, and begins to sink, knocking Lois unconscious and nearly drowning them all. Superman rescues them in the nick of time and helps them take off to safety in the plane.The hero then attempts to apprehend Luthor, who has made his way to one of the new land masses. However, the kryptonite shell surrounding the crystal caused the new rock formations to be infused with kryptonite, making the land itself toxic to Superman. Luthor's men beat Superman into submission and Luthor stabs him with a kryptonite shard, and allows him to fall into the ocean presumably to die.Meanwhile, upon regaining consciousness, Lois learns that Superman has gone to confront Luthor. Knowing of the kryptonite danger, Lois convinces Richard to double back to help him. Jason spots the Man of Steel in the water and Lois and Richard get him to the plane where Lois removes the shard. Back on his feet, Superman flies high into the atmosphere to regain his strength by exposure to sunlight. Using his heat vision, he then tunnels deep under the land mass and, using all of his strength, is able to fly it off into space.While helping Luthor escape, a disillusioned Kitty discards the remaining crystals and the two eventually end up trapped on a deserted island due to lack of fuel for the helicopter. Complications from kryptonite exposure cause Superman to fall into a coma, and while doctors are able to remove more fragments from his skin, they cannot revive him. Lois visits him in the hospital and whispers into his ear while glancing at Jason. Soon after, hospital staff discover his room empty. No longer feeling alone in the universe, Superman visits his newly revealed son in the boy's room and repeats to Jason the words of Jor-El's (Marlon Brando) last speech as he sleeps. Lois starts writing another article, titled "Why the World Needs Superman." Superman reassures her that he is now back to stay, and flies off into space, where he gazes down at the world.