Take the Lead is a 2006 drama dance film directed by Liz Friedlander, and starring Antonio Banderas as dance instructor Pierre Dulaine, the founder of Dancing Classrooms. It also stars Alfre Woodard, John Ortiz, Rob Brown, Yaya DaCosta, Dante Basco, Elijah Kelley, and Jenna Dewan. The film was released on April 7, 2006. Although based in New York City, it was filmed in Toronto. Stock footage of various locations in New York City were used.A group of students prepare for a school dance. Rock arrives with a damaged ticket and is denied entry by Mr. Temple and Principal James. After leaving, Rock and a group of thugs proceed to vandalize the Principal's car. Pierre Dulaine catches them in the act, but they flee before Pierre is able to interrogate them further.The next morning, Pierre arrives at the school to see the Principal. After explaining that he witnessed her car being vandalized, Pierre offers to take over the detention shift and teach them ballroom dancing. She agrees, although she is sure that he will not last more than a day. Pierre is led to the basement to meet the students. His first class is disastrous due to the scepticism and uncooperative personalities of the students. When Pierre returns the next morning, Principal James is surprised. She explains that Rock’s brother, Ray, was involved in a gang war; one of the casualties was LahRhette's brother, who refused to dance with Rock the day before.At Pierre's dance studio, Caitlin is under pressure to learn to dance because her cotillion is fast approaching. Though she loves dancing, she feels like a failure. She envies Morgan for her graceful sensuality and says to Pierre that she is "like sex on hardwood." This gives Pierre an idea of how to reach out to the kids in detention. He invites Morgan to give them a demonstration of the tango, which inspires the students to be more willing to learn. Caitlin decides to join them for dance class and practices with Monster. Though the other students accuse her of wanting to "tell her upperclass friends that she's slumming" at first, they gradually learn to accept her after she admits that she feels better with them than with Morgan and her friends.LaRhette, the daughter of a prostitute, cares for her younger siblings while her mother works the streets. One night, she runs out of the apartment and to the school after one of her mother's clients attempts to rape her. While practicing her dancing, she runs into Rock, who'd snuck down there to sleep after losing his job and getting kicked out of his house after a physical confrontation with his drunken father. They fight and are caught by security. Principal James wants to suspend them both, but agrees to give them extra detention instead.Pierre tells the class about a dance competition that he wants to enter them in. Gradually, the students begin to trust Pierre; some even visit his apartment to discuss their problems. When the detention basement is flooded, Pierre takes the students to his dance studio to practice. The youngsters become disenchanted by the skills of Pierre's students as well as the $200 entrance fee for the contest. However, Pierre manages to inspire them again and promises to pay the fee. LaRhette and Rock, who have now learned to respect each other, will compete in the waltz, and the rivals Ramos and Danjou learn to share Sasha during practice.
Closing exposition


Since "Dancing Classrooms" was created by Pierre Dulaine, it has grown to involve 42 instructors and more than 12,000 students in 120 New York City public schools. It is currently expanding across America.


Mr. Temple has complained about the schools resources being supposedly wasted on the dance program. When Pierre is brought to a meeting with the parents' association, he convinces them to keep the program going after demonstrating how ballroom dancing has taught the students "teamwork, respect, and dignity". On the night of the contest, Rock is told he must participate in a theft. He intentionally shoots the sprinkler system, setting off the alarm and causing the thugs to flee.At the competition, it is announced that a $5000 prize will be given to the winning team. Sasha, Danjou, and Ramos perform an impressive three-person tango but are disqualified because the event is a "partner" dance. Morgan calls it a tie and gives Sasha her trophy. Principal James, impressed with the success of the program, insists on making it permanent and expanding it to more schools. Rock arrives at the last minute to dance the waltz with LaRhette, whom he kisses at the end. The final credits roll as Pierre's students triumphantly dance to hip hop music, having tampered with the sound system.