Blonde Ambition is an American film released in December 2007 and inspired by the theme of the Academy Award-winning movie Working Girl, starring singer/actress Jessica Simpson playing the part of a small town girl who moves to New York City and rises up into a career as a business woman. The film also stars Luke Wilson, Paul Vogt and actor/comedian Andy Dick.When Katie Gregerstitch visits her boyfriend Billy in New York, she finds him in bed with another woman. Thus, Billy breaks up with Katie, who then leaves to stay with her close friend Haley. She convinces Katie to start an independent life of her own, instead of sitting around doing nothing. One day, when Haley has to go to an audition, Katie takes over her job as a messenger and eventually has to deliver a shipment to a large building construction company.The deputy director of that company, Debra, preys on the job of Richard and has come up with a plan to frame Richard for sabotage, in order to take over the company. To help herself with that, she makes sure that Richard’s secretary gets dismissed and that the naive Katie takes her place. Katie meanwhile meets Ben, who works as a postman in the building, and befriends him.After losing a contract, by Debra’s doing, Katie gets fired, but by using her charms, she manages to get a second chance from Richard. When she manages to get the interest of a group of Norwegian investors, Richard shares an important confidential project with her. Debra manages to get the confidential information out of Katie and thereby make sure that the Board of Directors fires Richard.Meanwhile, Katie has discovered that Ben is actually Richard’s son. Together with him, she devises a ruse to outsmart Debra. When Debra proposes the project to the investors, she sends out Haley and some friends, who pose as the investors. At the same time, she presents her own proposal to the real investors, who satisfyingly take it. When Debra discovers the deception, she goes ballistic and thus gets fired.