Dan in Real Life is a 2007 American comedy-drama film directed by Peter Hedges, and stars Steve Carell, Alison Pill, Juliette Binoche, Dianne Wiest, John Mahoney and Dane Cook.Dan Burns is a newspaper advice columnist, a widower, and single-parent to his three girls, living in Northern New Jersey. The family takes a trip to the rambling, Rhode Island home of his parents for an annual family gathering. Also in attendance are Dan's sister and brother with their families and Dan's younger brother Mitch.The morning after their arrival, Dan meets Marie in a bookshop. They share a muffin and a heart-felt chat, although Marie gently warns Dan that she has a boyfriend. Dan returns to his parents' house and announces that he has 'met someone'. Brother Mitch introduces his new girlfriend Annie. Lo and behold, Dan's Marie is Mitch's Annie. Dan is disheartened and resists his father's relationship advice about finding someone of his own.Dan reluctantly agrees to a foursome dinner with their once unattractive childhood friend, "pig-faced" Ruthie. Marie jealously watches Dan and Ruthie. The next morning, Dan endures her 'punishment' for his late night with Ruthie by eating the burnt pancakes which she serves him. Tension grows between Dan and Marie, culminating at a the family talent show. Dan accompanies Mitch on the guitar as Mitch sings, "Let My Love Open the Door"--however, during the bridge, Dan begins to sing too--seemingly to Marie. The next morning, Marie breaks up with Mitch. However, Marie and Dan meet to talk at a bowling alley. The meeting evolves into a date and finally a passionate kiss, but unfortunately Dan's entire family arrives to bowl. Mitch punches Dan in the face, and Marie hurries out.The plot resolves with Dan and his daughters going to New York City, where they finally find Marie at her gym. As he makes eye contact with her, Dan, in voice-over, tells the readers of his advice column that instead of merely planning ahead in life, they should "plan to be surprised."The film ends with Dan and Marie celebrating their wedding at his parents' Rhode Island home, and Mitch happily dancing with Ruthie.