Death Sentence is a 2007 American action drama film loosely based on the 1975 novel of the same name by Brian Garfield.Nick Hume, his wife Helen and their two sons, Brendan and Lucas, watch Brendan's hockey game. While Nick and Brendan are driving home, they talk about the latter's potential future as a professional hockey player. They stop at a gas station in a bad part of town and during a robbery of the gas station, Joe Darley, a new gang member, slices Brendan's throat with a machete. Nick ambushes the thugs, pulls off Joe's mask and sees his face, but Joe escapes to get hit by a car. Nick rushes Brendan to the hospital, but Brendan dies.Nick identifies Joe in a line-up, but while meeting with the district attorney, he becomes angry when the DA presents a case that the defense will cut a deal for three to five years of jail time. The DA explains that Nick is the only witness, there were no surveillance cameras and the defense could gain sympathy for Darley. At a pre-trial hearing, Nick recants his identification so Joe will go free. He follows the gang to their hide out, returning later and stabbing Joe while he is alone. The gang leader, Billy, wants revenge. One of the gang members says his sister saw a man in a suit. Confirming it was Nick from a newspaper picture, they ambush him on the street. After chasing, they stop at the top of a multi-story parking garage where Nick gets into a fight with one of the members and traps him in a car and sends him over the edge of the lot.One of the gang members arrives at the office where Nick works to deliver his suitcase that he dropped during the chase. Nick calls a phone number found in the case, which belongs to Billy. Billy warns that Nick has bought a "death sentence" for his family, and reveals that Joe Darley was his brother. Nick immediately calls the police detective assigned to Brendan's case, Jessica Wallis, who is already aware of what Nick started, grants Nick's family police protection and issues APBs on Billy and his gang. That night, the officers at Nick's house are stealthily killed, but by the time Nick realizes, he finds the gang members are in the house. They attack and subdue Nick, then drag Helen and Luke downstairs to shoot them and Helen dies.After Detective Wallis gives a speech that wars are never settled, she lets Nick pay a visit to a comatose Lucas, where he apologizes for not being a better father. Nick escapes from the hospital to go after the remaining gang members, obtaining guns from a black market gun dealer Bones, who is also Billy's father. Nick tracks down Heco, a member of the gang, and interrogates him about where the other members are, learning their lair is an abandoned mental hospital they call "The Office." He forces Heco at gunpoint to call Billy's cell phone, and executes Heco while Billy is listening. Bones confronts Billy and criticizes him, but Billy kills him. Nick heads to "The Office" to kill the remainder of the gang. After a shootout, he and Billy encounter and seriously wound each other in the hospital chapel. Sitting on the same pew, Billy claims that he turned Nick into a vicious cold-blooded killer, just like him. Nick pulls out one of his guns and kills Billy.With his family now avenged, Nick returns home, watches his own family's movies and awaits his inevitable arrest. Detective Wallis comes to arrest Nick, but informs him that Lucas has moved and will now live. Nick becomes relieved and looks at the television, which shows the family singing on the couch. Nick's final fate remains unknown. In the extended version of the film, Nick succumbs to his injuries.