Evan Almighty is a 2007 American fantasy comedy film and the stand-alone sequel/spin-off to Bruce Almighty (2003). The film was directed by Tom Shadyac, written by Steve Oedekerk, based on the characters created by Steve Koren and Mark O'Keefe from the original film, and starring Steve Carell, Morgan Freeman, Lauren Graham and John Goodman.Newly elected to Congress, former local television news reporter Evan Baxter (Steve Carell) leaves his hometown of Buffalo, New York and moves to the fictional community of Prestige Crest in Virginia, where his congressional campaign officially declares that he will change the world. Evan prays to God (Morgan Freeman) to give him this opportunity. His wife, Joan (Lauren Graham), also prays that she, Evan and their three sons (Jimmy Bennett, Graham Phillips, and Johnny Simmons) will be closer together as a family. On the first day of his job at Congress, Evan is given a prime office space, where he is accompanied by his three congressional staffers (Wanda Sykes, John Michael Higgins and Jonah Hill) and invited to junior co-sponsor the Public Land Act bill with his greedy boss, Chuck Long (John Goodman). Soon after Evan's election to Congress, six strange things start to happen around him:
The number 614 starts to appear everywhere he goes (i.e. house number, alarm clock, government license plate)
Ancient tools and gopher wood are delivered to his house that he actually did not order.
A man revealed to be God appears everywhere he goes.
Pairs of animals simply follow Evan without any apparent reason (with birds even flying into his office through the window).
Evan grows a beard that instantly reappears no matter how many times he shaves.
Eight vacant lots in Prestige Crest are purchased in his name.
Evan soon learns that 614 refers to the verse in the Book of Genesis,[3] where God originally instructs Noah to build an Ark in preparation for a flood. God later repeatedly appears in various guises before finally revealing himself to Evan, and cordially insisting that he should also build an ark as well. God explains to Evan that a flood is coming, and that the only opportunity Evan will have to change the world is by saving his community instead. God also tells Evan to inform others about the flood should they ask him later. Concerned about Evan's behavior, Joan initially believes that he is having a mid-life crisis. Evan begins constructing the ark with his sons, who start to admire him as he is spending more time with them.Animals eventually follow Evan to Congress. When Long discovers this, he allows Evan latitude at first, but warns him that he will no longer tolerate it if it happens again in the future. Meanwhile, Evan's staffers are outraged by his change of appearance and behavior. When Evan returns to the ark during construction, God presents him with a robe, and later tells him that the flood will likely come at mid-day on September 22. When Joan becomes suspicious of his behavior, Evan tells her the truth: God has been talking to him and is responsible for his new look and recent actions, although Joan does not believe Evan and is convinced that he is beginning to lose his mind. After wearing the robe for some time, Evan finds it comfortable, but soon realizes that God will not allow him to take it off and wear anything else after two failed attempts to change his clothes later. The next time Evan arrives at Congress for work, animals follow him once again and he is mysteriously changed into his robe midway through the session. Evan reluctantly explains his divine mission, but Long does not take him seriously and Evan is suspended from Congress and removed from the Public Land Act bill. Evan deduces that God purposely had him suspended from Congress so that he would have more time to build the ark. In continued skepticism, Joan leaves Evan alone after believing he is going insane.Evan decides to build the ark alone, gaining media attention and public ridicule as hundreds of animals assemble in pairs. Meanwhile, God appears to Joan as a waiter at a diner. God listens to Joan as she expresses concern that Evan is losing his sanity and allowing himself to become a laughing stock, though claiming that "God told him to do it." Sympathetic toward Evan, God tells Joan that perhaps it is only opportunity for them, and explains that he does not give things but only the opportunity by which to obtain things, citing togetherness of families as one of these things. Seeing God's meaning, Joan finally returns to Evan with new-found faith and continues helping him finish the ark together in order to prepare for the flood. On September 22, Evan's staffers arrive in support as well and Eugene shows him research he performed on Long. It is revealed that, many years ago, Long took over Prestige Crest and commissioned a dam, then destroyed the remaining land to have the lots and houses built. He cut corners in building the dam, and will most likely do the same thing with his Public Land Act bill.Evan loads hundreds of animals onto the Ark in front of hundreds of spectators and live news crews, who continue to mock him. Later, Long and the policemen arrive with a wrecking ball crew to try and destroy the ark, since it violates numerous building codes in Prestige Crest. When the wrecking crew threatens to demolish the ark, a brief rainstorm occurs, prompting some of the spectators to leave. The rain prevents the crew from proceeding, buying Evan a little time. However, Evan connects Long's profiteering ethics and what God had already told him about the original form of Prestige Crest before Long changed everything, and realizes that the dam under Long Lake is preparing to burst. Evan warns those present to board the ark and many do so when the prophesied flood is triggered shortly after the dam bursts. Prestige Crest is catastrophically destroyed, and the ark later rides the flood through the streets and landmarks of Washington, D.C.. The ark reaches its final destination in front of the Capitol, which disrupts the vote on the Public Land Act bill. Long becomes outraged that the flood did really happen. Evan informs Long that the flood was actually caused by his poor design of the dam, which prompts the other Congressmen also present to turn against Long.After Congress suspends the Public Land Act bill to investigate Long's profiteering ethics and the animals return to their natural habitats, Evan is finally reinstated as a congressman and celebrates this event by shaving his beard, changing back into his regular clothes and going on a long-promised hiking trip with his family. They journey to Prestige Crest which, after the flood of the Long Lake dam, was restored to its original creation, abundant in trees and lush fields. When God reappears once again during the hike, Evan is initially disappointed as he realizes he should never have needed to build the ark since the flood had only happened due to Long's defective dam. However, God reassures Evan that he now has a perfect life as well as everything that he had originally prayed for and that this would not have happened otherwise. Evan is happy to realize this and God informs him that the right way to change the world is by doing one Act of Random Kindness (ARK) at a time. During the film's closing credits, God issues a new commandment to the outgoing audience: "Thou shalt do the dance." This is later followed by footage depicting the film's cast and crew members dancing to C+C Music Factory's hit song "Gonna Make You Sweat (Everybody Dance Now)."