Georgia Rule is a 2007 American drama film directed by Garry Marshall. The film stars Lindsay Lohan, Jane Fonda and Felicity Huffman, with supporting cast Dermot Mulroney, Garrett Hedlund and Cary Elwes. The original music score was composed by John Debney. The film received generally negative reviews from critics, but the lead cast was praised for their performances.Rebellious 17-years-old Rachel screams, drugs, drinks, fights with everyone and has sex with several boys; she is, in a word, uncontrollable. With her latest car crash, Rachel has broken the final rule in the San Francisco home of her mother, Lily. With nowhere else to take the impulsive and rambunctious girl, Lily hauls her daughter to the one place she swore she'd never return—her own mother's house in Idaho. Matriarch Georgia lives her life by a number of unbreakable rules—God comes first, and hard work comes a very close second—and she wants that anyone who shares her home do the same. Now saddled with raising the young woman, it requires each patient breath she takes to understand Rachel's fury.Georgia arranges a job for Rachel as the office girl of Dr. Simon Ward, the local veterinarian, who also unofficially treats people. His two nephews, Sam and Ethan, are often at Georgia's house. Simon does not show interest in Rachel or other women; so, she thinks he is gay. However, Simon's sister Paula reveals that he is still mourning the death of his wife and son who were killed in a car collision three years earlier. He refuses to have sex with Rachel even when she tries to seduce him, but retains some feelings for her mother Lily, whom he has dated in the past.Rachel performs oral sex on Harlan Wilson, who was not yet married and still a virgin because of his LDS (Mormon) religion. He confesses to his LDS girlfriend who is shocked. A team of LDS girls spy on Harlan to make sure he does not "have sex" again. After almost running them over with Harlan's truck, Rachel explains to them that what happened was over and that they can go back to having their summer fun. They agree to do so, but they tell Rachel to go home leading Rachel to threaten them by saying if they have anything to do with her and Harlan again, she will find all of their boyfriends and "fuck them stupid", and that is the point when they stop insulting her and end their spying on Harlan.While trying to make a point to Simon about survival, Rachel bluntly says that her stepfather, Arnold, sexually molested her from the time she was 12 until she turned 14. Seeing the effect of her revelation, Rachel tries to convince him she lied. However, Simon tells Georgia about the abuse, and Georgia tells Lily who thinks Rachel is lying. Heartbroken, Lily comes to believe her daughter, and begins to drink heavily and asks Arnold for a divorce.When Arnold arrives, Georgia tells him to leave, and refuses to allow him in the house. Finally, she forces him to leave by hitting him with a baseball bat; when he still refuses to leave the property, she threatens to hit his new red Ferrari. Rachel sees that Lily cannot accept the truth, and lies to her about being molested.At the motel where Arnold is staying Rachel tells him that she has a video tape of the two having sex when she was 14, and Arnold seems worried. Rachel demands $10 million if he does not keep Lily happy. She admits to him that she told Lily lies because she does not want her to be upset anymore. On the way back to San Francisco, Arnold tells Lily that he is giving Rachel his Ferrari, and Lily realizes that he is guilty.Lily starts a raging argument/attack and Arnold finally admits to having molested Rachel numerous times, using the excuse that Rachel seduced him, Lily's alcoholism drove him to it and that Rachel enjoyed it. So, Arnold drives off and leaves Lily to walk home. Georgia, Simon, Rachel and Harlan catch up with Lily in Harlan's pick-up truck, and a tearful Rachel apologizes for her behavior. Harlan tells Georgia that he is in love with Rachel and plans to marry her when he gets back from his two-year mission.