Hitman is a 2007 French-American-British action-thriller film directed by Xavier Gens and based on the video game series of the same name. The story revolves around Agent 47, a professional hitman, who was engineered to be an assassin by the group known as "The Organization". He becomes ensnared in a political conspiracy and finds himself pursued by both Interpol and Russian intelligence. The film stars Timothy Olyphant, Olga Kurylenko and Dougray Scott and was released on November 21, 2007 in the United States, November 30, 2007 in the United Kingdom and December 26, 2007 in France. Though critically not well-received, it was a financial success, grossing $99 million against a $24 million budget.At a remote compound, a group of young boys are receiving tattoos of bar codes on the back of their shaved heads; men observe, direct, and coordinate the training of the boys in firearms, unarmed combat, stamina and strength. The boys are trained from an early age to be professional, international hitmen-for-hire.Interpol agent Mike Whittier (Dougray Scott) arrives at his house and is held at gunpoint by Agent 47. The two talk about 47's life as a professional hitman, working for a mysterious paramilitary group known simply as the Organization.Three months prior, 47 (Timothy Olyphant) is completing a hit on a Nigerian warlord named Bwana Ovie, force-feeding one of his prisoners with plastic explosives and remotely detonating him and his 3 men. He is told by his Organization contact, Diana Burnwood, to kill his next target, Russian President Mikhail Belicoff (Ulrich Thomsen) publicly. He completes his mission, but before he can leave Russia, he is contacted by his employers. They tell him that there is a witness to the assassination and order him to intercept her. When 47 realizes she has never seen him before, he does not shoot her, instead, he narrowly avoids an assassination attempt on himself, attempted by another Agent.His employers reveal his location to agents of FSB, who make plans to intercept him. As he is about to be taken, Diana calls to warn him and tells him that Belicoff himself ordered the hit. After an escape from the hotel, 47 intercepts Nika (Olga Kurylenko), Belicoff's mistress, the woman who supposedly witnessed his hit. He interrogates her about Belicoff and discovers that Belicoff had a body double, who ordered the hit on the real Belicoff so that he could take his place as the president of Russia. 47 was to be killed after the hit to ensure total secrecy.As Nika and 47 attempt to take a train further into Russia, they are intercepted by more Agents. 47 kills four before disarming Whittier and wounding his partner (Michael Offei). FSB Agent Yuri Marklov (Robert Knepper) order Interpol to leave the country. 47 contacts CIA officer Carlton Smith to offer him a deal. 47 will kill Udre Belicoff, Mikhail's brother (an arms dealer and human trafficker), in exchange for a favor. Agent Smith informs 47 that Udre had been planning something with a German arms dealer named Price. Intercepting him could lead 47 to Udre.47 and Nika travel to Istanbul, where 47 abducts Price in order to pose as Price at a meeting with Udre. 47 kills Udre and his henchmen, so Belicoff's double is forced to attend Udre's funeral. 47 kidnaps Marklov and forces him to have his own agents try to shoot Belicoff's double as he delivers the eulogy. Disguised as a soldier, 47 kills Belicoff's double's guards and takes him into the archbishop's chamber in the church. 47 kills him and allows himself to be taken into custody by Interpol and Whittier.Smith delivers on his end of the deal, having the operatives under his command intercept the Interpol convoy that is transporting 47 to the airport, giving 47 the distraction necessary to escape. The scene then flashes forward to the conversation between Whittier and 47 occurring at the former's house. 47 suggests Whittier go along with his plan, saying that he will notify the police that he has killed the fake Agent 47, implying that Whittier will not survive if he does not. He also suggests that Whittier waits until after his daughters have gone to school, so they don't have to witness it.Nika picks up an envelope from an undisclosed sender. Inside it, there are papers and a message saying that she now owns a vineyard. 47 is watching her from afar, through the scope of a sniper rifle. He then looks at the corpse of another Organization Agent, lying close to him, and walks away.