Under Suspicion is a 2000 American thriller film directed by Stephen Hopkins. It stars Gene Hackman, Morgan Freeman, Monica Bellucci and Thomas Jane. The film is based on the 1981 French film Garde à vue and the 1970s British novel Brainwash, written by John Wainwright. It was screened out of competition at the 2000 Cannes Film Festival.[1]   Wealthy tax attorney Henry Hearst (Hackman) is about to give a speech at an exclusive New Year's Eve party in Puerto Rico. He is called to the police station to be questioned about the body he found the day before - that of a young girl who had been raped and murdered. Captain Victor Benezet (Freeman) and Detective Felix Owens (Jane) question him about inconsistencies in his story. Hearst quickly realizes that they think he committed the murder, as well as that of another young girl whose body was found days earlier. Benezet is under pressure from his boss (Miguel Ángel Suárez) to free Hearst so that he can give his speech. As there is no conclusive proof, Benezet has to let him go. At the party, a crowd is gossiping and Chantal (Bellucci), Henry's much younger wife, has to keep her face emotionless. She is questioned later about why she and her husband sleep in separate rooms. Little by little, the story that each of them tells changes. Hearst first blames Chantal for being jealous. Then, it is discovered he likes cheap, very young prostitutes and visits pornography websites featuring women dressed as schoolgirls. Hearst says that Chantal and her brother-in-law, artist Paco Rodriguez (Luis Caballero), are lovers. Chantal says that she saw Hearst with her 13-year-old niece Camille (Isabel Algaze) giving her presents and trying to seduce her. Also, she tells that once she saw her husband washing his blood-stained clothes at night. Hearst denies molesting Camille, but admits that he prefers much younger women. Chantal, the legal owner of the mansion where they live, signs a permit to let the police look for hard evidence linking her husband to the murders. In the dark room, they find photographs of the two murdered girls. When the photographs are shown to him at the police station, Henry says that he can't believe Chantal would go this far. Shortly thereafter, Hearst breaks under the pressure, and the realization that his wife thinks he's guilty of the murders. He makes a false confession to the crimes, just as detectives are notified that the real killer has been arrested after being "caught in the act." Benezet and Owens then free Hearst. Chantal attempts to connect with him outside the police station, but he cannot forgive her for believing him capable of the murders, and rebuffs her. Based on 44 reviews collected by Rotten Tomatoes, 50% of critics gave Under Suspicion a positive review, with an average rating of 5.3/10.[2] The film was given limited release to only 19 theaters in North America, grossing a total of $260,562 during its theatrical run.[3] The film was also given limited release internationally, grossing $752,783 in Mexico, $17,222 in Taiwan and $277,675 in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta.[4] The film was nominated by the Mystery Writers of America for the 2001 Edgar Award for Best Motion Picture.