Married Life is a 2007 American drama period film directed by Ira Sachs. The screenplay by Sachs and Oren Moverman is based on the 1953 novel Five Roundabouts to Heaven by John Bingham. Cast members include Patricia Clarkson, Chris Cooper, Rachel McAdams and Pierce Brosnan.[2] The novel was also the basis for the December 20, 1962 episode of The Alfred Hitchcock Hour entitled "The Tender Poisoner".Set in 1949, the film focuses on successful middle-aged businessman Harry Allen (Chris Cooper), who is having an affair with considerably younger war widow Kay Nesbitt (Rachel McAdams). Feeling rejuvenated by his emotional reawakening, he confides in his best friend Richard Langley (Pierce Brosnan) and encourages him to visit his mistress in order to alleviate her loneliness. Richard complies and immediately finds himself attracted to the young woman.Richard discovers Harry's wife Pat (Patricia Clarkson), oblivious to her husband's ongoing tryst, is engaged in an affair of her own with John O'Brien (David Wenham). Anxious to cement his blossoming relationship with Kay, Richard separately urges Harry and Pat to remain with each other.Harry, however, is determined to marry Kay. Certain divorce would hurt and humiliate Pat too much. So, he decides to kill her by lacing her daily digestive aid with poison. He visits Kay, who unexpectedly ends their relationship. Harry departs, then returns to ask for all the correspondence he has sent her, only to discover Kay in the arms of Richard, who had secreted himself upstairs. Realization sets in, and Harry races home to stop his wife from taking her nightly dose of medication. When Harry returns home he finds his wife sleeping, thinking she consumed the poison Harry walks towards the bedroom window and opens it. He is startled by Pat waking up and saying, "You're home early, is everything all right honey." Harry looks out the window in his backyard and sees John O'Brien running away from the house while getting dressed. It was implied that at this moment Harry comes to know about Pat's infidelity. Harry never confronts her, maybe consumed by his own guilt.Richard and Kay eventually wed and become part of the Allens' social circle, which includes John O'Brien and his wife. Harry and Pat continue to be on the periphery of their healing marriage.