The Mist (also known as Stephen King's The Mist) is a 2007 American science-fiction horror film based on the 1980 novella of the same name by Stephen King. The film was written and directed by Frank Darabont, who had previously adapted King's works The Shawshank Redemption (1994 film based on King's 1982 novella) and The Green Mile (1999 film based on King's 1996 novel). Darabont had been interested in adapting The Mist for the big screen since the 1980s. The film features an ensemble cast including Thomas Jane, Marcia Gay Harden, Samuel Witwer, Toby Jones, and future The Walking Dead actors Jeffrey DeMunn, Juan Gabriel Pareja, Laurie Holden, and Melissa McBride.




This article may require copy editing for grammar, style, cohesion, tone, or spelling. You can assist by editing it. (March 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Following a violent thunderstorm, David Drayton leaves his wife Stephanie at home while he ventures into town with his eight-year-old son Billy and their neighbor, Brent Norton, to buy supplies for repairs. Arriving at a grocery store, they and the other patrons notice unusual police and military activity, and then moments after a panicked and injured man, Dan, runs in warning of danger, a thick mist envelops the store, accompanied by earthquake-like tremors and the town's tornado siren.A mentally unstable religious woman, Mrs. Carmody, decides that this is the beginning of Armageddon. A shaken woman (Melissa McBride), against objections from the others, leaves the store to go home to her children. While investigating the store's generator, a bag-boy named Norm volunteers to go outside, but is snatched and pulled into the mist by a tentacle connected to an unseen monster.Refusing to listen to Drayton, Norton heads outside with a small group to seek help, only to be attacked and killed, prompting the rest of the survivors to barricade the shop-front windows. That night, enormous insects land on the windows and pterodactyl-like animals attack them, breaking the glass and allowing the creatures to begin fighting inside the store, killing Sally, a cashier from the store. One of the insects lands on Mrs. Carmody, but doesn't sting her because she keeps still during her prayer. As a result, she starts preaching even more and quickly gains followers among the distraught survivors.A trip to the neighboring pharmacy to gather medical supplies goes horribly wrong and two people are killed by giant spiders, leaving Mrs. Carmody's faction containing most of the survivors. Two soldiers commit suicide, and a third, Private Jessup, reveals that the local military base was filled with rumors about the Arrowhead Project, the government's attempt to look into other dimensions, and that the scientists responsible for the experiment may have inadvertently opened a doorway into a dimension containing the creatures that are now invading the town. Mrs. Carmody convinces her followers to blame Jessup and he is stabbed and ejected from the store, quickly falling prey to a large praying mantis-like creature.David and eight others secretly gather supplies to flee, but Mrs. Carmody stops them. After stealing the supplies, she gathers her followers and orders them to murder Billy and Amanda Dumfries; however, store assistant manager Ollie quickly intervenes and kills Mrs. Carmody by shooting her with Amanda's gun. Traumatized at their leader's death and returning to their senses, Mrs. Carmody's followers stand down and allow David's group to exit. Only David, Billy, Dan, Amanda, and Irene make it to the car, as Ollie is eaten by the praying mantis-like creature, Myron and Ambrose are attacked and killed by the giant spiders, and Bud runs back to the market and is allowed back in.Driving through the mist, David finds his house destroyed and his wife dead. Devastated, he drives the group south, passing destroyed vehicles and seeing a gigantic six-legged, tentacled beast. When they run out of gas, the group decides there is no point in going on. David shoots the others (with their consent, except for his son who is not old enough to understand) rather than have them endure horrifying deaths, but is left with no bullet to use on himself. He leaves the car and waits to be killed, but the mist suddenly recedes, revealing that the U.S. Army has arrived, managed to close the portal, rescued other survivors, and restored order. Among the survivors is the woman who left the store at the phenomenon's onset, completely unscathed and accompanied by her two children. David realizes that they were only moments from being rescued, likely having been driving away from help the entire time, and drops to his knees screaming as two soldiers look on in confusion.