The Number 23 is a 2007 American psychological thriller film written by Fernley Phillips and directed by Joel Schumacher. Starring Jim Carrey, the film was released in the United States on February 23, 2007. This is the second film to pair Schumacher and Carrey, the first being Batman Forever.The plot involves an obsession with the 23 enigma, which is the idea that all incidents and events are directly connected to the number 23, or to some number connected to 23.Walter Sparrow (Jim Carrey) is an Animal Control Officer and married to Agatha (Virginia Madsen); they have a son, Robin (Logan Lerman). At a bookstore, Agatha begins looking at a book titled The Number 23 written by Topsy Kretts. She later gives Walter the book as a birthday present.Walter starts reading the book, noticing odd similarities between himself and the main character, a detective who refers to himself as "Fingerling". Walter begins to have dreams of murdering Agatha. Walter becomes obsessed with the number 23 - just as Fingerling does in the book - and tries to warn Agatha that the number is going to "come after her". She tells him he is crazy.Walter comes to realize that he is Topsy Kretts, having written the book as a way to rid himself of the guilt he felt over murdering a woman named Laura Tollins (Rhona Mitra). He was never suspected of the crime, and a man named Kyle Flinch (Mark Pellegrino) was convicted and imprisoned instead. He then remembers that he had dated Tollins 13 years earlier, but that she had left him for Flinch. Walter stabbed her to death in a jealous rage, and left the scene of the crime moments before Flinch arrived and touched the knife, leaving his fingerprints and implicating himself in the murder. Wracked with guilt, Walter decided to kill himself and began writing a suicide note, but found that he could not stop writing; the note became the book. He then jumped out of a window, but survived and was left with amnesia.Fearing he will hurt his family, he leaves home and moves to a hotel - the same one in which he had attempted suicide. Agatha finds Walter at the hotel and tries to assure him that he is no longer the person he was when he wrote the book. He insists that he is a killer, and tells Agatha to leave before he kills her, too. He leaves the hotel and runs into the street, where he nearly allows himself to be run over by a bus but steps out of the way at the last minute when he realizes his son is watching. He turns himself in to the police and is awaiting sentencing, having been told that the judge will likely go easy on him. A funeral procession takes place in front of Tollins' grave, where it is implied her body has finally been laid to rest, as Flinch observes, a free man.