Ocean's Thirteen is a 2007 American comedy heist film directed by Steven Soderbergh and starring an ensemble cast. It is the third and final film[2] in the Soderbergh-directed Ocean's Trilogy, following the 2004 sequel Ocean's Twelve and the 2001 film Ocean's Eleven, which itself was a remake of the 1960 Rat Pack film Ocean's 11. All the male cast members reprise their roles from the previous installments, but neither Julia Roberts nor Catherine Zeta-Jones returns.Reuben Tishkoff is conned by Willy Bank, his former business partner, into being forced to sign over the ownership rights of the new hotel-casino they were building together, "The Bank". Reuben suffers a heart attack and becomes bedridden. Daniel Ocean offers Bank a chance to set things right, given his long history in Las Vegas and the fact that he "shook hands with Sinatra," but Bank refuses. To avenge Reuben, Ocean gathers his partners-in-crime and plans to ruin Bank on the opening night of the hotel.First, they plan to prevent "The Bank" from winning the prestigious Five Diamond Award, which all of Bank's previous hotels have won. Saul Bloom poses as the reviewer of the board, while the real reviewer is treated horribly during his stay by Ocean's associates and the staff on their payroll. Next, they plan to rig the casino's slot machines and games to force a payout of more than $500 million in winnings, forcing Bank to cede control of the casino to the board. This requires defeating "The Greco Player Tracker," a state-of-the-art artificial intelligence system that ensures that all winnings are legitimate by measuring the players' biometric responses for authenticity.They trick Bank into carrying a cell phone with a magnetron to disrupt the Greco. Ocean's team acquires one of the giant drills used to bore the Channel Tunnel to simulate an earthquake under the hotel on opening night to ensure that gamblers leave with their winnings after the Greco shuts down, rather than remaining in the casino to inevitably lose their money again. Rusty Ryan poses as a seismologist to tell Bank an earthquake evacuation code is necessary, to which Bank reluctantly agrees. When the team tries to drill towards The Bank, however, the drill breaks, forcing them to approach Terry Benedict, their previous antagonist, to fund the purchase of a second drill. As Benedict has a grudge against Bank, he offers Ocean the funds only if they also steal four necklaces Bank bought representing the four Five Diamond Awards, worth some $250 million, now on display in a secured case atop the hotel.On opening night, FBI agents have been informed that machines have been rigged by Livingston Dell and arrest him, resulting in the card-shuffling machines being replaced by Roman Nagel, as Livingston was unable to effectively rig them. Basher Tarr, posing as a motorcycle daredevil hired for a stunt, distracts Bank long enough to allow Virgil and Turk Malloy to change the group's FBI records, including their names and appearances, to prevent being identified alongside Livingston.Linus Caldwell seduces Bank's assistant, Abigail Sponder, to gain access to the display and switch the diamonds with fakes. He is interrupted by the lead FBI agent, who explains the diamond theft to Bank's assistant. Linus is arrested, but as they exit in the elevator, the FBI agent is revealed to be his father, Robert "Bobby" Caldwell, who is in on Ocean's plan. As they exit to the roof of the hotel for extraction via helicopter, they are caught by François "The Night Fox" Toulour, whom Benedict hired to intercept the diamonds. Linus gives the diamonds to Toulour, who escapes by parachuting off the hotel. However, upon Toulour's exit, Linus, Bobby, and Basher extract the entire display case of the real diamonds from the hotel via the helicopter as Ocean had already been aware of Toulour's presence in the hotel.The plan continues as expected. Virgil and Turk Malloy use the drill to simulate the earthquake and, with "The Greco" disrupted via the magnetron in Bank's phone, the guests evacuate the hotel with their massive winnings because of the hotel's new earthquake evacuation protocol. Bank realizes he's ruined, and as the guests leave, he sees the helicopter flying off with his diamonds. So does Toulour, who discovers that he holds only the fakes. Ocean lets Bank know that they did everything for Reuben. He also tells Bank that he cannot get revenge, since all of Bank's connections like Ocean better than Bank himself, and Bank's own corrupt activities make it impossible for him to go to the police.Ocean's men use the money they made off with to buy property north of the Las Vegas Strip for Reuben. To punish Benedict for attempting to steal the diamonds, Ocean donates Benedict's $72 million portion of the take to charity, forcing Benedict to publicly admit his philanthropy via television appearance on The Oprah Winfrey Show (which Ocean was shown watching earlier), a scene viewed by Danny, Rusty and Linus in the airport's lounge. As the group disperses, Rusty ensures that the real Five Diamond reviewer, who suffered numerous discomforts during his stay at the hotel, is compensated by allowing him to win the $11,000,000 jackpot on a rigged slot machine at the airport.