Babylon A.D. is a 2008 English-language French[5] science fiction action film based on the novel Babylon Babies by Maurice Georges Dantec. The film was directed by Mathieu Kassovitz and stars Vin Diesel, Mélanie Thierry, Michelle Yeoh, Lambert Wilson, Mark Strong, Jérôme Le Banner, Charlotte Rampling, and Gérard Depardieu. It was released on 29 August 2008 in the United States.In the near future, Russian mobster Gorsky hires mercenary Toorop to bring a young woman known only as Aurora to New York City. Gorsky gives Toorop a variety of weapons and a subdermally implanted UN passport. Toorop, the girl, and her guardian Sister Rebeka, travel from the Noelite Convent in Mongolia to reach New York via Russia.Unlike the technologically advanced U.S., war and terrorist activity have transformed Russia's cities into dangerous, overpopulated slums. They must also evade an unknown group of mercenaries claiming to have been sent by Aurora's supposedly dead father. The stress of humanity's situation causes Aurora to act out in strange ways that neither Toorop nor Rebeka can explain. On one such occasion, Aurora seems for no reason to panic and run from a crowded train station, just before it explodes.Later, they board a submarine that carries refugees to Canada. To avoid satellite detection, the submarine abandons and shoots some refugees. Aurora, infuriated by the loss of life, operates the 30-year-old submarine without training. Sister Rebeka tells Toorop that Aurora could speak nineteen different languages by the age of two, and always seems to know things she has never learned. Three months before leaving with Toorop, she began acting differently. This occurred after a Noelite doctor administered a pill. The doctor tells her to go to New York City and arranges for Toorop to take them.Once in Harlem, a news broadcast about the bombing of the convent causes the group to realize there is more going on than they know. The Noelites have become a major new salvationist religion, which vast numbers of people cling to as the world spirals out of control. However, in private meetings, it is seen that their High Priestess only desires power and uses invented miracles to court converts. Gorsky, working for the Noelites, had planted a tracking device in Toorop's passport and bombed the convent when he knew they were in the United States. The doctor who earlier saw Aurora examines her again. When he leaves, Aurora reveals (without being told) that she is pregnant with twins despite being a virgin.Looking outside, Toorop sees Gorsky's men and the Noelite group, heavily armed and waiting for them. The High Priestess calls Toorop and asks him to bring Aurora outside. Just before they take her away, Toorop changes his mind and starts a firefight with the two groups to get two women to safety. Because of the tracking devices, Gorsky's men can lock onto Toorop with tracking rockets. Rebeka dies defending Aurora, who in turn shoots Toorop, saying, "I need you to live." By dying, the rocket goes off target and explodes near Aurora instead; she inexplicably survives.Dr. Arthur Darquandier revives Toorop using advanced medical techniques, but several of Toorop's body parts are replaced with cybernetics to undo the damage of being dead for over two hours. Darquandier says when Aurora was a fetus, he implanted a supercomputer into her brain. It is also implied that the Noelite group had him create Aurora to become pregnant at a certain time to use her as a "virgin birth".After she was born, the Noelites hired Gorsky to kill Darquandier, but he failed. Darquandier remained "dead" until he found his daughter in Russia with Toorop. Darquandier uses a machine to scan Toorop's memory to find what Aurora said to him before Toorop "died". In Toorop's memory, Aurora tells Toorop to "go home". Toorop and several of Darquandier's men leave the facility. En route to Darquandier's lab, the High Priestess calls Gorsky, at which point he is killed by a nuclear missile sent to him by the High Priestess. Darquandier is later killed by the High Priestess, but it is too late, since Toorop has already escaped. Toorop goes to his old house in the forest, finds Aurora, and takes her to a hospital, where she dies after giving birth. Aurora was "designed to breed", not to live, so her death after childbirth was preprogrammed. Toorop takes care of her two children.In a scene that is only present in the theatrical cut but was removed from the director's cut, the twins are shown to be of different ethnicities, one looking like Aurora and the other like Toorop.