Bedtime Stories is a 2008 American family-fantasy-comedy film directed by Adam Shankman, written by Matt Lopez and Tim Herlihy and produced by Andrew Gunn and Jack Giarraputo that stars Adam Sandler in his first appearance in a family-oriented film and also stars Keri Russell, Jonathan Morgan Heit, Laura Ann Kesling, Guy Pearce, Aisha Tyler, Russell Brand, Richard Griffiths, Teresa Palmer, Lucy Lawless and Courteney Cox. Sandler's production company Happy Madison and Andrew Gunn's company Gunn Films co-produced the film with Walt Disney Pictures. The film was theatrically released on December 25, 2008 by Walt Disney Pictures. Despite receiving generally negative reviews from critics, it was a box office success after earning $212.9 million against a $80 million budget.Skeeter Bronson is a hotel leader who is promised as a child by his father Marty to be the manager of the family hotel, but later it is bought by chain Nottingham Hotels. 25 years later, the new manager Mr. Nottingham plans to build a new hotel and appoints another man, the snotty Kendall to become the manager, because he is dating his daughter.Skeeter's sister Wendy asks him to watch her kids, because the school at which she is the principal is being closed and she is looking for a job in Arizona. The first night, Skeeter tells a bedtime story taking place in medieval times, with some additions from her kids. It comes true. Mr. Nottingham gives Skeeter a shot at the manager position when he says his new hotel theme was taken by Hard Rock Hotel and on his way home it rains gumballs, all from the story.The next night, at the hotel, he tells another story set in the Old West, and when he waits for it to come true, a man steals his wallet. He saves Mr. Nottingham's daughter, Violet, from the paparazzi and gets kicked by a dwarf. The night after that, out on a campfire, he tells them about a Greek stunt man, and he ends up falling for his sister's friend and fellow colleague Jill.The last night, he tells them about a space fight in which he triumphs over Kendall. After he wins the gig of manager he unfortunately makes the discovery,that the new Nottingham Hotel will be at the location of the closing school . After being fired, which turned out to be the connection with the ending of the space story, he gets the hotel moved to Santa Monica, and then with Jill is able to end the demolition, saving the school and his nephew and niece while getting his wallet and money back.Sometime later, he marries Jill and founds a hotel named after his late father. Kendall, for trying to destroy the School with Skeeter's nephew and niece inside the building isn't fired, instead he and his scheming partner Aspen are demoted to members of the hotel wait staff. Violet marries Skeeter's best friend Mickey giving him control of the Nottingham Empire, becoming the 9th richest man alive, in the meantime newlywed Skeeter and Jill have a baby.