The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian is a 2008 high fantasy film based on Prince Caspian, the second published, fourth chronological novel in C. S. Lewis's epic fantasy series, The Chronicles of Narnia. It is the second in The Chronicles of Narnia film series from Walden Media, following The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe (2005). The four Pevensie children (William Moseley, Anna Popplewell, Skandar Keynes, and Georgie Henley) return to Narnia to aid Prince Caspian (Ben Barnes) in his struggle with the "secret" help of Aslan (Liam Neeson) for the throne against his corrupt uncle, King Miraz (Sergio Castellitto). The film was released on May 16, 2008 in the United States and on June 26, 2008 in the United Kingdom.




This section is too long to read comfortably, and needs subsections. Please format the article according to the guidelines laid out in the Manual of Style. (October 2016)

1,300 Narnian years after the events of the previous movie, Caspian, a Telmarine prince and heir to the Telmarine throne, is informed by mentor Doctor Cornelius that his uncle, Miraz, is plotting to kill him and seize the throne for himself and his newborn heir. Cornelius gives him Queen Susan's ancient magical horn, instructing him to blow it only at his greatest need. Caspian flees into the woods being chased by Telmarine soldiers where he encounters two Narnian dwarfs, the dwarfs try to fight against Caspian but then they see Queen Susan's horn. They fight the Telmarines and take Caspian to their house for first aid as his head was injured. After telling them that he is Prince Caspian and his uncle wants to kill him for his throne, Trumpkin and Nikabrik head out straight to a jungle where they again encounter Telmarine soldiers, Nikabrik is injured in battle and feeling danger Caspian blows Susan's horn but soon a badger named Trufflehunter arrives at the spot and kills all Telmarines and was going to thrust his Rapier in Caspian when Trumpkin stops him telling him that he is on their side.In England (where only one year has passed), the Pevensie children are waiting for a tube train when the station suddenly starts collapsing, and they are magically transported to Narnia. They are overjoyed, they go to the hall not knowing it yet and take back their weapons which Narnians safeguarded for years, but soon Lucy realizes that it is their castle at Cair Paravel and convinces others to remember the time of their coronation but now it is in ruins and with evidence it was attacked by catapults. In the Telmarine castle, the lords of the council learn that Prince Caspian is gone, and Miraz says that the Narnians abducted him at which everyone laughed telling him that Narnians are not real but then he presents Trumpkin in front of them, using Trumpkin, who has been captured, persuades them to attack the Narnians to retrieve Caspian while secretly plotting to kill him instead. Lord Sopespian suspects Miraz's motives, and discusses his treasonous thoughts with his ally, General Glozelle.The Pevensies save Trumpkin from being drowned by two Telmarines. He tells them he did not know who they are but then sees the symbol of Aslan on Peter's sword, but Peter to prove that they are who they say they are he tells Edmund to duel with Trumpkin in which Edmund wins, Trumpkin then realizes that the four children are the Kings and Queens of Old and they continue on together. Lucy glimpses Aslan and tries convincing the others that she has seen him; only Edmund believes her. Nikabrik and Trufflehunter lead Caspian to a gathering of the old Narnians and Centaurs, where he convinces them to help him win his throne so he can return their land. They meet the Pevensies and Trumpkin, and all journey to Aslan's How. Peter decides they will attack Miraz's castle, rejecting Lucy's advice that they wait for Aslan to return. The Narnians raid Miraz's castle, but Caspian ruins the plan by freeing Cornelius instead of opening the gate. He learns that Miraz killed his father, and confronts Miraz but is wounded. Overwhelmed, Peter calls for a retreat. Peter, Susan, Edmund, Caspian and the Narnians escape with heavy losses. Upon returning to Aslan's How, Peter and Caspian argue, while back at the castle, Miraz is crowned King.Nikabrik, with the aid of a hag and a werewolf, offers Caspian his help to guarantee victory. The hag uses black sorcery to summon Jadis, the White Witch. From inside a wall of ice, the White Witch tries convincing Caspian to free her, when Peter, Edmund, Lucy and Trumpkin arrive. Peter kills the hag, Edmund kills the werewolf, and Trumpkin stabs Nikabrik when he attacks Lucy. Peter knocks Caspian aside to face the Witch himself, but begins to be entranced, until Edmund shatters the ice, destroying the Witch's apparition. As Miraz and his army arrive at Aslan's How, Caspian suggests Peter and Miraz duel to the death, with the loser's army to surrender, to buy Lucy and Susan time to find Aslan. Miraz agrees to the duel, not wanting to look like a coward in front of his men. The girls are attacked by Telmarine soldiers, so Susan remains behind to fight them while Lucy continues alone. Peter defeats Miraz, and gives Caspian his sword to finish him off, but Caspian spares Miraz's life. Sopespian kills Miraz with one of Susan's arrows and accuses the Narnians, leading to a battle, with the Telmarines gradually winning. Lucy finds Aslan in the woods and he awakens the trees, turning the battle in the Narnians' favor. Sopespian orders a retreat to a bridge, where they are confronted by Lucy and Aslan. Aslan summons the river god, who destroys the bridge, killing many of the soldiers, swallowing Sopespian and winning the battle.Caspian invites the Telmarines to remain in Narnia if they will coexist peacefully with the Narnians; but if they wish, they can return to the human world from which they originally came to Narnia. Some, including General Glozelle, agree to do so, and Aslan creates a portal for them and the four Pevensies. Susan kisses Caspian, knowing they will never meet again, as Aslan told her and Peter that they will never return to Narnia. The Pevensies return to England, leaving Caspian as King.