Fireproof is a 2008 American Christian drama film released by Samuel Goldwyn Films and Affirm Films,[2] directed by Alex Kendrick, who co-wrote and co-produced it with Stephen Kendrick. The film stars Kirk Cameron, Erin Bethea, and Ken Bevel.Married couple Caleb (Kirk Cameron), a fire captain, and Catherine Holt (Erin Bethea), a hospital administrator are experiencing marital difficulties. At work Caleb underscores the importance of never leaving one's partner while at home he and Catherine argue copiously. Catherine accuses Caleb of being selfish due to his desire to buy a boat taking preference over paying for her mother's medical bills, and frustrated over his habitual use of internet pornography. Caleb feels unappreciated and undervalued. Their constant arguing causes Catherine to demand a divorce, to which an enraged Caleb agrees.Caleb's coworker Michael (Ken Bevel) and father John (Harris Malcom) convince him to hold off on divorce proceedings. His father persuades him to try the Love Dare, a 40-day challenge for improving marriages by changing the way a spouse is treated. Caleb reluctantly agrees, though he decides not to tell Catherine. At the hospital where she works, Catherine has been openly flirting with Dr. Gavin Keller (Perry Revell).Caleb begins The Love Dare halfheartedly viewing the tasks as more of a checklist, while nurses at Catherine's hospital warn her not to trust him as they interpret his actions as a way to butter her up for a better divorce settlement. With encouragement from his father and Michael, Caleb continues, though Catherine eschews his affections and grows closer to Dr. Keller. Finding Catherine unmoved, Caleb is consoled by his father while Michael reveals that he has been divorced. Caleb sustains burns on the job, and while being treated at the hospital where his wife works, Dr. Keller inadvertently discovers that Catherine is married and he is treating her husband, but continues his affections. Caleb continues The Love Dare with renewed faith and Catherine gives him an envelope petitioning for divorce.Catherine discovers that her mother's medical costs have been paid anonymously and thinks it was Dr. Keller, bringing them closer. Caleb discovers the burgeoning affair and confronts the doctor. After Caleb leaves, Dr. Keller produces a wedding band, revealing that he is also married, and ends his affections towards Catherine.Catherine confronts Caleb after discovering his Love Dare journal, and he reveals to her that he has completed the challenge but is still following its guidelines. Catherine says she needs time to reconsider the divorce, and discovers that her husband used his savings to pay her mother's medical bills. Moved by Caleb's selflessness, Catherine reconciles with him. Caleb discovers that his mother, whom he has treated poorly, is actually the one who completed The Love Dare for his father, and not vice versa as Caleb had originally thought. The film ends with Caleb and Catherine renewing their wedding vows.