Fool's Gold is an 2008 American adventure-romance film from Warner Bros. Pictures about a recently divorced couple who rekindle their romantic life while searching for a lost treasure. The film was directed by Andy Tennant and reunites the How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days stars Matthew McConaughey and Kate Hudson.


This article needs an improved plot summary. (January 2017)

"Finn" Finnegan is a treasure hunter searching for a sunken Spanish galleon, the Aurelia, that was lost at sea with the 1715 Treasure Fleet. During his search to find the galleon and its treasure, his wife Tess divorces him. Tess has been working as a steward on a yacht owned by multi-millionaire Nigel Honeycutt. Finn finds a clue to the location of the treasure and manages to get on Nigel Honeycutt's yacht The Precious Gem and convince him and his daughter Gemma to join (and fund) the search for the treasure.Bigg Bunny, a gangster, and Finn's mentor, Moe Fitch, are intent on finding the treasure first. The Precious Gem and Moe's vessel compete to find the treasure in The Bahamas. As Finn attempts to secretly take down Moe's search grid, Finn discovers a sword which holds a clue to finding the treasure. Tess and Finn follow the clues to an ancient church and discover a diary describing the location of the treasure. Bigg Bunny and his associates, who have been following Tess and Finn, take Tess hostage and assume incorrectly that Finn is dead. Bigg Bunny forces Tess to aid him in the search for the treasure in a blowhole. Tess finds the treasure in a cave beneath the blowhole.Finn and the Honeycutts enlist Moe to help steal the treasure from Bigg Bunny. They arrive as Bigg Bunny sends one of his associates back into the water to find out who was killed in the blowhole. The blowhole kills Bigg Bunny's employee and traps Finn and Tess. Tess saves Finn, but Bigg Bunny kidnaps Tess again. Gemma transports Finn to Bigg Bunny's plane on her jet ski, and Finn leaps onto the plane's pontoon as it takes flight. Bigg Bunny attempts to shoot Finn, but Tess kicks Bigg Bunny out of the plane, sending him into the ocean. Moe takes Bigg Bunny's henchman as a prisoner.Tess and Finn are reunited and find the treasure together. Tess is shown to be pregnant. In the end, the treasure is displayed in Moe's museum, now renamed the Fitch Finnegan Maritime Museum.