Get Smart is a 2008 American action comedy film directed by Peter Segal, written by Tom J. Astle and Matt Ember and produced by Leonard B. Stern, who is also the original series' producer. The film is based on Mel Brooks and Buck Henry's classic television series of the same name.Maxwell "Max" Smart, an analyst for the top secret American intelligence agency, CONTROL, yearns to become a field agent like his idol, Agent 23. Despite top scores in the acceptance tests, Max is denied the promotion due to his higher value as an analyst. When CONTROL headquarters is attacked by the terrorist organization KAOS, almost all of CONTROL's agents' identities are exposed, leaving only Agent 99 as a viable field operative. Max is also promoted to field agent as Agent 86, but the experienced 99 is reluctant to partner with him because of his incompetence.The two infiltrate the mansion of KAOS' chief bomb-maker, Ladislas Krstic, and trace nuclear material to a KAOS nuclear weapons factory disguised as a Moscow bakery. In the bakery, Max meets with KAOS boss Siegfried and his second-in-command, Shtarker, only to learn that a double-agent has compromised their identities. Max manages to escape and destroy the weapons factory, but he and 99 are confronted by a KAOS agent named Dalip; Max manages to persuade Dalip to spare their lives. The Chief sends 23 to observe the cleanup of the factory, but KAOS sneaks the weapons out through the Moskva River beforehand, leaving 23 convinced that only a bakery had been destroyed. Realizing that Max was alone during his key discoveries, CONTROL believes Max to be the double-agent. 99, who has been gradually falling in love with Max, is heartbroken but takes Max into custody.Siegfried contacts the U.S. government and threatens to release nuclear weapon detonator codes to hostile countries unless he is paid a ransom of $200 billion. When his threats are not taken seriously, KAOS plans to detonate a nuclear bomb in Los Angeles. While Max is in a CONTROL holding cell, Dalip sends him a coded message via the radio show American Top 40 alerting him to Siegfried's plan. Max escapes; arrives in Los Angeles to reunite with the Chief, 99, and 23; and convinces them that he is not the double-agent. When his Geiger counter-equipped watch picks up traces of radiation from 23, they realize 23 is the real double-agent.23 takes 99 hostage and flees in a vehicle. After a chase, Max manages to rescue 99, but in the struggle, the car is set on fire and forced onto railroad tracks. Max kisses 23 to distract him, a trick learned from 99. He and 99 are thrown off the vehicle before it collides with a freight train, killing 23. After analyzing 23's nuclear football, Max realizes that the bomb will be triggered by the final note of Beethoven's "Ode to Joy". They rush to the Disney Hall, and Max tackles the elderly conductor just before the final note, saving the President and Los Angeles. Siegfried, despite his plan failing, is satisfied with Dalip's performance and promises not to kill his wife in response, but insults her at the same time. In response, Dalip throws Siegfried into a river.Back in CONTROL headquarters, a party is held in Max's honor, where 99 gives him a puppy. Max is afterwards given honors and gets his dream of becoming a real spy. While leaving, Max attempts to fix the jammed door, much to 99's dismay, and crushes himself into the door frame.