In Bruges is a 2008 British-American black comedy crime film written and directed by Martin McDonagh. The film stars Colin Farrell and Brendan Gleeson as two Irish hitmen in hiding, with Ralph Fiennes as their boss. The film takes place and was filmed in the Belgian city of Bruges.[4]Carrying out orders to execute a priest, rookie hitman Ray also accidentally kills a young boy. He and his mentor Ken are sent to Bruges, where they are to await further instructions, by their employer Harry. Ken finds the city charming and quaint, while Ray has nothing but contempt for it.They chance upon a film shoot involving a dwarf actor, which amuses Ray. Ray approaches Chloë, a local drug dealer moonlighting as a production assistant. He takes her to a restaurant, where he gets into an argument with a Canadian couple and ends up knocking them unconscious. Chloë takes Ray to her apartment, but her ex-boyfriend Eirik appears and threatens Ray with a handgun. Ray disarms him and fires the gun, which is loaded with blanks, in his face, blinding him in one eye. Chloë admits that she and Eirik rob tourists, but insists she told Eirik that Ray was not a target. Ray, Ken and Chloë spend a debauched night with the dwarf actor, Jimmy, who takes cocaine and rants about a coming war between blacks and whites.Harry calls Ken and orders him to kill Ray, on the principle that killing a child—even accidentally—is unforgivable. With a handgun supplied by Harry's local contact Yuri, Ken tracks Ray to a park and reluctantly prepares to kill him. However, Ray, distraught at his killing of the boy, prepares to kill himself with Eirik's loaded gun. Seeing this, Ken stops Ray, informs him of Harry's order, and tells him to leave Bruges to make a new start elsewhere. Ken reports back to Harry, who immediately sets out for Bruges, enraged at the disobedience. He picks up a gun at Yuri's, and Eirik, Yuri's son, learns of his intention.On the train, Ray is identified by the Canadian couple he assaulted in the restaurant and is escorted back to Bruges. Chloë bails him out and the two share a drink on the market square beneath Bruges's belfry. Ken and Harry meet for a drink nearby, then climb to the top of the carillon tower, where Ken argues that Ray deserves a chance at redemption. Seeing Ray at the square, Eirik climbs the tower to inform Harry. Ken attempts to stop Harry, but Harry shoots him. He drags himself back to the top of the tower and jumps. Ray rushes to Ken's mangled body and learns of Harry's arrival.Harry chases Ray to the hotel, where Marie, the owner, refuses him entry, even when he draws his gun. Harry and Ray agree to continue the chase on the canal, where Harry wounds Ray with a shot from a distance. Ray staggers onto the street where Jimmy's film is shooting. Harry catches up and shoots Ray until he collapses. One of the bullets hits Jimmy (costumed as a schoolboy), blowing his head apart. Harry, believing he has killed a child, kills himself on principle. Ray is lifted into an ambulance, with Chloë and the hotel owner Marie at his side. He reflects on the nature of hell, comparing it to the city of Bruges, and hopes that he survives.