Prom Night is a 2008 American-Canadian slasher film directed by Nelson McCormick that is a loose remake of the 1980 film Prom Night. The film stars an ensemble cast including Brittany Snow, Scott Porter, Jessica Stroup, Dana Davis, Collins Pennie, Kelly Blatz, James Ransone, Brianne Davis, Kellan Lutz, Mary Mara, Ming-Na Wen, Johnathon Schaech and Idris Elba. A high school girl named Donna Keppel (Snow) is traumatized after witnessing her former teacher, Richard Fenton (Schaech), brutally murder her entire family after he had become dangerously obsessed with her. Three years later, as Donna gets ready for her senior prom, Fenton escapes from custody, follows her to the hotel hosting the prom, and kills anybody who gets in the way of his reunion with Donna.In 2005, Bridgeport native Donna Keppel, a high school freshman, returns home from a date with her friend Lisa Hines to find her father and little brother murdered. Donna hides under the bed, where she sees her mother struggle with her former teacher Richard Fenton, who has become obsessed with Donna. As Donna locks eyes with her mother, she witnesses Fenton murder her after she refuses to tell him where Donna is. In 2008, Donna, now a high school senior, lives with her Aunt Karen and Uncle Jack and is about to graduate. She regularly visits her psychiatrist, Dr. Elisha Crowe, and takes anti-depressants to cope with her depression.Donna and her friends are getting ready to attend their senior prom. While at the hairdressers with Lisa and Claire, Donna sees Fenton standing outside but realizes she was hallucinating. Donna's boyfriend, Bobby, arrives at her house along with her friends and their boyfriends, Ronnie and Michael. At the police station, Detective Winn, who imprisoned Fenton three years ago, learns that he has escaped and warns Karen and Jack. Karen thinks Donna should come home, but Jack convinces her that Donna should stay at the prom and have a good time.At the prom, Fenton arrives at the hotel disguised as a man named Howard Ramsey. He reserves a room on Donna's floor and stabs the housekeeper to death to get the master key. Claire has an argument with her boyfriend Michael, and goes up to her room with Donna to calm down. After Donna leaves, Claire hears noises and sees Fenton, who stabs her to death. When Claire does not return, Michael goes upstairs to see her. Fenton attempts to hide in the closet, but Michael sees the door close. Michael, thinking Claire is in it, opens the closet and Fenton stabs him to death.Winn arrives and warns the hotel staff, one of whom Fenton kills. Lisa and Ronnie bump into Fenton in the elevator on their way to the room. While making out with Ronnie, Lisa realizes that she saw Fenton and runs off to warn Donna, which makes Ronnie sad as he was about to propose to her. After waiting for the elevator, which does not come soon enough, Lisa takes the stairs, but Fenton chases her down to a lower floor under construction. Lisa hears the elevator doors open and sees Ronnie call for her. She attempts to flee, but Fenton slices her throat.Winn and Detective Nash find the body of the real Howard Ramsey in his car trunk. Winn goes up to the room booked under Ramsey's name and finds the housekeeper's body. He sounds the emergency alarm and has the hotel evacuated. Donna goes back to her room to retrieve her mother's shawl, but runs into Fenton, who tries to break into her room. Realizing Donna is still inside, Winn races back up to the room, but Donna escapes from Fenton. SWAT and police search the hotel, but find no sign of Fenton. Winn discovers the body of the employee Fenton killed and realizes that Fenton has left the hotel in the employee's uniform. Winn races back to Donna's house and discovers Nash in his squad car, presumably stabbed to death by Fenton.Inside, Donna goes to the bathroom and returns to her bedroom to discover Bobby dead with his throat slit. She sees a shadow out in the hall and hides in her closet, thinking it is Fenton. She learns that the shadow is only Winn, and Fenton grabs Donna in the closet. Winn is about to open the closet, but hears a scream from Karen, who has seen a dead officer on the ground outside, so Winn runs to her bedroom. Fenton attacks Donna and a violent struggle ensues. When Fenton is about to stab Donna to death, Winn returns and shoots Fenton to death.