Quantum of Solace is the 22nd film in the James Bond film series released 2008, directed by Marc Forster, produced by Michael G. Wilson and Barbara Broccoli and written by Paul Haggis, Neal Purvis and Robert Wade. It stars Daniel Craig, Olga Kurylenko, Mathieu Amalric, Gemma Arterton, Jeffrey Wright and Judi Dench. In the film, Bond seeks revenge for the death of his lover, Vesper Lynd, and is assisted by Camille Montes (Kurylenko), who is plotting revenge for the murder of her family. The trail eventually leads them to wealthy businessman Dominic Greene (Amalric), a member of the Quantum organisation, who intends to stage a coup d'état in Bolivia to seize control of their water supply.James Bond is driving from Lake Garda to Siena, Italy, with the captured Mr. White (Jesper Christensen) in the boot of his car. After evading pursuers, Bond delivers White to M, who interrogates him regarding his organisation, Quantum. M's bodyguard, Craig Mitchell (Glenn Foster), is a double agent; he attacks M, enabling White to escape. Bond chases Mitchell and kills him. Bond and M return to London and search Mitchell's flat, discovering Mitchell had a contact in Haiti, Edmund Slate (Neil Jackson). Bond learns Slate is a hitman sent to kill Camille Montes (Olga Kurylenko) at the behest of her lover, environmentalist entrepreneur Dominic Greene (Mathieu Amalric). Observing her subsequent meeting with Greene, Bond learns Greene is helping exiled Bolivian General Medrano (Joaquín Cosío), who murdered Camille's family, to overthrow his government and become the new president, in exchange for a seemingly barren piece of desert.After rescuing Camille from Medrano, Bond follows Greene to a performance of Tosca in Bregenz, Austria. Meanwhile, the head of the CIA's South American section, Gregg Beam (David Harbour), strikes a noninterference deal with Greene for access to putative stocks of Bolivian oil. Bond infiltrates Quantum's meeting at the opera, identifying members of Quantum's executive board, and a gunfight ensues. A Special Branch bodyguard working for Quantum member Guy Haines (Paul Ritter), is killed by antagonists after Bond throws him off a roof. M assumes Bond killed him, and has Bond's passports and credit cards revoked. Bond heads to Italy and convinces his old ally René Mathis (Giancarlo Giannini) to accompany him to Bolivia. They are greeted by Strawberry Fields (Gemma Arterton), a consular employee who demands Bond return to the UK immediately. Bond seduces her and they attend a fundraising party Greene holds that night. At the party, Bond again rescues Camille from Greene. Leaving, Bond and Camille are pulled over by Bolivian police working for Medrano. They had earlier attacked Mathis and put him in the boot of Bond's car to frame Bond. In the ensuing struggle, Mathis and the cops are killed.The following day, Bond and Camille survey Quantum's intended land acquisition by air; their plane is shot down by a Bolivian fighter aircraft. They skydive into a sinkhole, and discover Quantum is damming Bolivia's supply of fresh water to create a monopoly. Back in La Paz, Bond meets M and learns Quantum killed Fields by drowning her in crude oil (an apparent reference to Oddjob's murder of Jill Masterson (Shirley Eaton) in Goldfinger). Bond meets CIA Agent Felix Leiter (Jeffrey Wright), who discloses Greene and Medrano will meet in the Atacama Desert to finalise their agreement. Warned by Leiter, he evades the CIA's Special Activities Division when they attempt to kill him.At an eco hotel in the desert, Greene tells Medrano that now he controls the majority of Bolivia's water supply, Medrano must accept a new contract that makes Greene Planet Bolivia's sole water utility company at significantly higher rates. Bond infiltrates the complex, kills the chief of police (Fernando Guillén Cuervo) for betraying Mathis, and single-handedly assaults the hotel. After killing the security detail, he confronts Greene. Meanwhile, Camille kills Medrano, avenging the murders of her family. The struggle leaves the hotel destroyed by fire. Bond captures Greene and interrogates him about Quantum, leaving him stranded in the desert with only a can of engine oil.Bond travels to Kazan, Russia, where he finds Vesper Lynd's former lover, Yusef Kabira (Simon Kassianides), a member of Quantum who seduces women with valuable connections, and who is indirectly responsible for her death. Bond tells Kabira's latest target, Corrine Veneau (Stana Katic), a Canadian Intelligence agent, of his true intentions, thus sparing her Vesper's fate. He allows MI6 to arrest Kabira. Outside, M tells Bond that Greene was found dead in the middle of the desert, shot twice and with engine oil in his stomach. M tells Bond she needs him back; he responds that he never left. Walking away, he drops Vesper's necklace in the snow.