The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2 is a 2008 American romance drama film, and the sequel to the 2005 film The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants. The original cast (Amber Tamblyn, America Ferrera, Blake Lively and Alexis Bledel) return to star in the film, which was directed by Sanaa Hamri. The film is based upon the fourth novel in The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series, Forever in Blue: The Fourth Summer of the Sisterhood, but incorporates scenes and storylines from The Second Summer of the Sisterhood and Girls in Pants: The Third Summer of the Sisterhood.[2] The film was released in the United States on August 6, 2008.   In the summer following their first year of college, we revisit four friends who have been apart all year and plan to spend their summer apart until a magical old pair of pants reunites them. Bridget (Blake Lively) visits her grandmother Greta (Blythe Danner) in Alabama to ask about her mother's suicidal depression. Lena (Alexis Bledel) finds her former flame Kostas (Michael Rady) married in Greece. Tibby (Amber Tamblyn) goes through a pregnancy scare and alienates Carmen. Carmen (America Ferrara) auditions for Perdita in a Vermont acting workshop. Bridget discovers her father (Ernie Lively) had hidden letters from her grandmother Greta and she rejects his explanation that he wanted to protect her. In Turkey, she immerses herself in an archaeological dig under Professor Nasrin Mehani (Shohreh Aghdashloo), who notices how glibly Bridget treats the past. After reading her grandmother's letters, Bridget leaves the dig early to visit Greta in Alabama, where she learns that her mother, who committed suicide, denied having depression. Though Bridget's father had accepted this, Greta could not and cut ties with both of them. When she worries that she will become unhappy like her mother, Greta assures Bridget that she is stronger than her mother. The conversation brings Bridget and Greta closer together, and allows Bridget to reconcile with her father. Lena has gone to mourn the death of Bapi in Greece, but discovers her old boyfriend Kostas is married and his wife is pregnant. She returns to the Rhode Island School of Design and begins dating Leo (Jesse Williams), the model for her life class. When Kostas comes to see her, revealing that marriage was annulled after his wife revealed she was never pregnant, Lena forgives him but refuses him because she does not believe they are the same people any more. However, after spending time with Leo, she realizes some people only fall in love once and she still cares for Kostas. Tibby has been working at a video store in New York while retaking a NYU screenwriting class that requires her to finish her script. She's dating Brian (Leonardo Nam) and sleeps with him, but the condom breaks. Afraid that she might be pregnant, she withdraws from her friends, using her script as an excuse. She breaks up with Brian and gives Lena's younger sister, Effie (Lucy Hale), permission to date him. Lena brings Tibby a requested pregnancy test kit, but Tibby gets her period before she takes it. Tibby drives to Vermont, hoping for Carmen's support. After arguing over who ignores the other more, Tibby leaves. She ends going to Brian's house and apologizes, confessing that she had been afraid dealing with change. Realizing that he loves Tibby, Brian breaks up with Effie. Carmen attends an actor workshop in Vermont, prompted by fellow Yale student, Julia (Rachel Nichols). Julia is comfortable in the acting world and friends with the director, Bill (Kyle MacLachlan), while Carmen is uncertain of where she belongs. After accidentally dropping a curtain on classmate Ian (Tom Wisdom) during his audition for The Winter's Tale, they watch Julia audition for the lead in Perdita and Ian encourages Carmen to try. Carmen talks about how she connects with Perdita, winning her the part, while Julia, though clearly jealous, promises to help Carmen. Initially uncertain about her acting abilities, Carmen grows more confident when her talent is recognized by the director and the other actors, including Ian, with whom she begins a flirtatious friendship. Julia grows more jealous, and her competition for Ian upsets Carmen. Carmen believes Ian would prefer to be with Julia, so she declines his offers to practice and falters in rehearsals. Also, feeling her friends ignored her all year, she pushes Tibby away, but reconciles with her after her mother Christina (Rachel Ticotin) goes into labor. Carmen asks Tibby to help after she and her stepfather (Paul Coughlan) cannot get to the hospital in time. Ian comforts Carmen, who is distressed over missing her mother's labor. Ian prefers Carmen to Julia, who pursues him. Carmen overhears Julia tell director Bill to replace Carmen, but he does not. She performs spectacularly, regains confidence, and kisses Ian after the play. While packing to leave, she finally tells Julia off. Effie, upset with Brian breaking up with her and how Lena seems to love her friends more than her own sister, steals the Pants and loses them in Greece while visiting her grandmother. The Sisterhood disagrees over whether the Pants are worth saving, so Lena travels to Greece first. The other girls follow to help, and convince the reluctant Lena to take back Kostas. Although they do not find the Pants, the summer ends in Greece with a renewal of their mutual commitment to each other. Principal photography started on the island of Santorini, Greece in Oia and continued in Connecticut. Western Connecticut State University was used for the scenes of Lena at the Rhode Island School of Design campus. Tibby's scenes were filmed in New York City.[3] In addition, Varèse Sarabande released an album of the film's score, composed by Rachel Portman (unlike the film's stars, composer Cliff Eidelman did not return for the sequel). Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 63%, based on 87 reviews, and writes "The workable chemistry among the four leads combined with the enriching message make for a winning Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants 2".[4] Metacritic scored the film as 63/100, with "generally favorable reviews", based on 26 reviews.[5] On its opening weekend, the film performed better than its predecessor, opening #4 at the box office with $10,678,430.[6] As of November 7, 2008, the film had grossed $44,080,484 domestically.[7] The DVD and Blu-ray were released in the United States on November 18, 2008. In Australia, the movie was released straight-to-DVD.