Wanted is a 2008 American-German action thriller film loosely based on the comic book miniseries of the same name by Mark Millar and J. G. Jones. The film, written by Chris Morgan, Michael Brandt, and Derek Haas and directed by Timur Bekmambetov stars James McAvoy, Morgan Freeman, and Angelina Jolie. The storyline follows Wesley Gibson (McAvoy), a frustrated account manager who discovers that he is the son of a professional assassin and decides to join the Fraternity, a secret society in which his father worked.Wesley Gibson works at a dead-end desk job with an overbearing boss, takes medication for panic attacks, and has a live-in girlfriend who cheats on him with his work friend Barry. One evening, Wesley is told by a woman named Fox that his recently murdered father was an assassin, and the killer, named Cross, is now hunting him. When Cross and Fox engage in a shoot-out, Wesley panics and runs, followed by Cross. Fox flips Wesley into her car and then executes a spectacular escape.Wesley awakens in a factory surrounded by Fox and other assassins. The group's leader, Sloan, forces Wesley at gunpoint to shoot the wings off of several flies, which he does, much to Wesley's shock. Sloan explains that Wesley's panic attacks are actually the untrained expression of a rare ability that allows him to distribute massive amounts of adrenaline, granting superhuman strength, speed, and heightened perception. He reveals that Wesley's father, as well as Cross, were members of the Fraternity, a society of assassins that maintains balance in the world. Sloan wants to train him so that he may help kill Cross.Wesley awakens the next morning in his apartment. He discovers that his bank account now contains several million dollars. Filled with new confidence, he has a public outburst against his boss then hits Barry in the face. Fox is waiting when Wesley leaves his workplace.Wesley trains under Fox's leadership, studying under different specialized assassins (the Butcher teaches knife fighting, the Gunsmith teaches marksmanship, and the Repairman teaches endurance and hand-to-hand combat). Frustrated by his lack of progress and the brutality of the training, Wesley insists he is ready, but Sloan disagrees. Wesley refocuses on his training and starts to excel. Sloan then shows him the Loom of Fate, which has served for 1,000 years in giving coded names of Fraternity targets through errors in the fabric. The Loom identifies those who will create evil and chaos in the future, with Sloan responsible for interpreting the code.After several successful missions, Wesley has an unexpected shootout with Cross, wherein Wesley accidentally kills the Exterminator, a Fraternity member he had befriended. Cross shoots Wesley in the shoulder. Sloan grants Wesley's wish to avenge his father and sends him after Cross—but then secretly gives Fox a mission to kill Wesley, saying that his name has come up in the Loom.Analyzing the bullet from his shoulder, Wesley traces it to a man named Pekwarsky. Wesley and Fox capture Pekwarsky, who arranges a meeting with Cross. When Wesley faces Cross alone on a moving train, Fox crashes a car into the train, causing a derailment. After Cross saves Wesley from falling into a chasm, Wesley fatally shoots him. Before dying, Cross reveals that he is Wesley's real father. Fox confirms this, and explains that Wesley was recruited because he was the only person Cross would not kill. Fox points her gun at Wesley, but he jumps into the chasm.Wesley is retrieved by Pekwarsky, who takes him to Cross' apartment – which is located just opposite Wesley's – and explains that Sloan started manufacturing targets for profit after discovering that he was targeted by the Loom. Cross discovered the truth, went rogue, and started killing Fraternity members to keep them away from his son. Pekwarsky departs, stating that Cross wished Wesley a life free of violence. Wesley, however, decides to kill Sloan after discovering his father's secret room, containing schematics to the Fraternity base.Wesley attacks the base using explosive rats (a tactic he learned from the Exterminator), killing surviving Fraternity assassins in a running gun battle. Entering Sloan's office, he is surrounded by Fox, Gunsmith and five other assassins. Wesley discloses Sloan's deception, to which Sloan reveals that the names of those present had legitimately come up in the Loom, and that he had acted to protect them. He gives the members a choice: kill themselves, per the code, or kill Wesley and use their skills to control the world. As the others prepare to kill Wesley, Fox curves a bullet around the room, choosing to follow the code and kill everyone, including herself. Sloan escapes in the mayhem.Wesley's bank account has been wiped out by Sloan, so he returns to his desk job. Sloan appears one day and points a gun at the back of his head. Wesley turns around – and is revealed to be a decoy. Sloan sees an "X" on the floor, and says "Oh, fuck." in shock, just as he is killed by Wesley with a shot from miles away. Wesley states that he is taking back control of his life before turning to the audience and asking "What the fuck have you done lately?"