Boogie Town[2] is a science fiction, dance battle romance film which is directed by Chris Stokes.[3] The film is produced by Vivendi Entertainment and the film was set to be released in theatres worldwide October 2011, however it was set to be originally released in the summer of 2009.[4] The lead roles are portrayed by Marques Houston and Brenda Song.[5] Mykal Anthony Bean, Katerina Graham,[6] Joseph C. Phillips and Vanessa Simmons also play major roles in the film.[7]The film is described as a "West Side Story" for the hip hop generation. It is set in a futuristic New York City, in 2015 where battle dancing is permanently banned because Chief Salisbury's son was murdered during a battle in 2009 when battle dancing was at its height. Ever since then, with help of the secret government agency SG7, Chief Salisbury has made it his own personal mission to permanently put an end to battle dancing.[1][4]The film centers on the dancers, Natalie (Brenda Song) and Micah (Marques Houston). Micah is a very skilled dancer and is the leader of dance crew, "The Trojans" while his former best friend Jay (Mykal Anthony Bean) is the leader of "The Warriors". Micah, Jay and their crews have been rivals for a very long time and because of the ban on battle dancing, the crews have created an underground world named "Boogie Town" in order to continue battle dancing. Micah then meets Jay's beautiful young sister, Natalie at a popular restaurant who has just arrived home from college. Natalie, unaware that this is her brother's rival, invites him to dinner and he accepts. Soon after the dinner, the two become a romantic couple and after Natalie realizes that her boyfriend is her brother's biggest rival, she tries her best to keep their relationship a secret with the help of Micah. Natalie and Micah become a modern-day Romeo and Juliet and are aware of the consequences of being seen having a romantic relationship but are deeply in love with each other. Both Micah and Jay have several mysterious and supernatural powers such as "ENERGY" and "HERCULEAN". Chief Salisbury and the SG7 created a special unit in the police department called the “Boogie Police”, a unit that are specially trained to track down and capture anyone who is caught dance battling in New York. The SG7 is after Micah and Jay because they want to use their blood to create super soldiers for an upcoming war (World War III). Natalie then explains to Micah that she knows he is a Herculean and tells him to go see a man named Genesis, and that he will answer all his questions. Micah takes the number and goes to see him. He gets no answers. Instead Genesis tells him that he is not ready yet and that when he is, he will see him then. The respectful rivalry between the two crews, goes past battle dancing and becomes a dangerous war when Jay finds out that his young sister Natalie is having a romantic relationship with his enemy.