District 9 is a 2009 science fiction film directed by Neill Blomkamp, written by Blomkamp and Terri Tatchell, and produced by Peter Jackson and Carolynne Cunningham. It is a co-production of New Zealand, the United States, and South Africa. The film stars Sharlto Copley, Jason Cope, and David James, and was adapted from Blomkamp's 2006 short film Alive in Joburg.In 1982, an alien ship inexplicably stops over Johannesburg. When investigation teams enter the ship, they discover a population of sick and malnourished extraterrestrials, who are nicknamed "prawns" based on their physical appearance and behavior. The South African government confines the aliens to "District 9", a government camp that is located outside of Johannesburg. Twenty-eight years later, in 2010, following unrest between the aliens and the locals living near District 9, the government hires private military company Multinational United (MNU) to relocate the aliens to a new internment camp. Wikus van de Merwe (Sharlto Copley), an Afrikaner bureaucrat, is appointed by Piet Smit (Louis Minnaar), an MNU executive and his father-in-law, to lead the relocation.Meanwhile, three aliens — Christopher Johnson (Jason Cope), his son, and a friend — scavenge pieces of their technology from which they distill a fluid and collect in a small canister. During an inspection, Wikus discovers and confiscates the canister from the shack of Christopher's friend, but accidentally sprays some of the fluid onto his face. Christopher's friend is subsequently killed by Koobus Venter (David James), a sadistic mercenary soldier employed by MNU.Under the fluid's influence, Wikus' body begins to deteriorate and become alien tissue starting with his left arm, that was injured after the fluid exposure. After the extent of the infection becomes apparent at a local hospital, Wikus is detained and transported to MNU headquarters for experimentation, where it is discovered that Wikus' now-chimeric DNA grants him the ability to use his transformed arm to wield alien weapons, which are biologically restricted to work for alien users only. Realizing the potential fortune to be made from Wikus' tissue in its current state, Smit and his scientists decide to vivisect Wikus, but Wikus overpowers them and escapes the facility. Smit orders Venter and his men to hunt Wikus down, while a smear story is broadcast that claims Wikus has been engaging in sexual activity with aliens and is a fugitive infected by an alien STD. The story is widely believed, and even Wikus' wife Tania (Vanessa Haywood), believes the story for a while.Wikus finds refuge in District 9 and stumbles into Christopher's shack, where he learns that Christopher is hiding the lost command module of their spacecraft underground, and comes to understand from Christopher that the fluid in the canister would be able to reactivate the command module and the dormant mothership, in which he claims he can reverse Wikus' mutation. To recover the canister from MNU headquarters, Wikus obtains alien weapons from superstitious Nigerian arms-dealer Obesandjo (Eugene Khumbanyiwa) and his gang, then he and Christopher attack the MNU offices, retrieve the canister, and flee to District 9 with MNU forces in pursuit.Appalled by the illegal experiments on his fellow aliens at MNU headquarters, Christopher decides to get help before curing Wikus, which will take three years as he will need to use as much fluid as possible in order to reach his home planet as quickly as possible. Frustrated by this revelation, Wikus knocks out Christopher and attempts to fly the command module to the mothership, but is almost immediately shot down by Venter and his men. They capture Wikus and Christopher, but Obesandjo's gang intervene and seize Wikus, acting on Obesandjo's belief that eating Wikus' transformed arm will enable him to use alien weaponry. Obesandjo's base is then attacked by MNU.In the command module, Christopher's son remotely activates the mothership and an alien mechanized battle suit in Obesandjo's base which kills Obesandjo and his men. Wikus takes control of the battle suit and rescues Christopher, who promises to return in three years with a cure. Wikus kills all the attacking soldiers before Venter cripples the suit, which ejects Wikus. As he corners Wikus, a group of aliens kill Venter by tearing him apart. The command module with Christopher and his son is lifted into the mothership, which they use to leave Earth, and Johannesburg's residents celebrate the alien ship's departure.A series of interviews and news broadcasts are shown speculating about Wikus' whereabouts and the potential return of Christopher and the spacecraft, and what it may entail. MNU's illegal experiments are exposed by Wikus' friend and assistant Fundiswa (Mandla Gaduka), and District 9 is demolished; all the aliens are subsequently moved to the larger District 10. Tania finds a metal flower on her doorstep, giving her hope that Wikus is still alive. The final scene shows a fully transformed Wikus in a junkyard, crafting a similar flower.