Extract is a 2009 American comedy film written and directed by Mike Judge, and starring an ensemble cast featuring Jason Bateman, Mila Kunis, Kristen Wiig, and Ben Affleck, with J. K. Simmons, Clifton Collins, Jr., and Dustin Milligan.Joel Reynolds (Jason Bateman) is the owner and founder of Reynolds Extract, a flavoring-extracts company. Although his business is successful, his marriage lacks passion. It doesn't help that he is also often accosted by his annoying neighbor, Nathan (David Koechner). One day, a series of mishaps occur at the extract factory, resulting in an employee (Step) (Clifton Collins, Jr.) losing a testicle. Cindy, (Mila Kunis) a con artist and drifter, reads a news story about the accident. Hatching a get-rich-quick scheme, she gets a temporary job at the factory, flirting with Joel in order to manipulate him into giving her more information about Step. She also begins a series of petty thefts from her co-workers, who openly accuse each other of the thefts. Although Step initially decides not to sue the company, he changes his mind after a "chance meeting" with Cindy (that she sets up in order to meet and flirt with him). Under Cindy's influence, Step hires ambulance-chaser attorney, Joe Adler (Gene Simmons ).Joel, unhappy in his marriage and mistaking Cindy's manipulations for genuine attraction to him, entertains the idea of an affair with Cindy; however, he still loves his wife, and wants to avoid actions that would leave him with regrets later. While visiting his friend Dean (Ben Affleck) and complaining about his situation, Dean suggests that Joel hire a gigolo to seduce his wife, so that Joel can then have a guilt-free "revenge" affair. Joel initially balks at the idea; but, after his judgment is impaired after ingesting a ketamine tablet that Dean mistakenly told him was just a Xanax, Joel eventually agrees. The friends hire Brad (Dustin Milligan ) to seduce his wife Suzie (Kristen Wiig ) into an affair, while posing as the pool cleaner. The next morning, Joel sobers up, realizes what he has done, and tries to stop Brad from going to his house; but by then, Brad and Suzie have already begun an affair. Things backfire further, as Brad falls in love with Suzie and wants to run away with her. After smoking marijuana with Dean and his friend Willie, Joel attempts to call Cindy, but soon realizes that he is calling Willie's number. Just then, Cindy walks into the apartment. Willie realizes that Joel is trying to get with Cindy [who lives with Willie], and, infuriated, punches Joel in the face.Joel meets with Adler and his associates, in the factory office, to discuss the terms of the settlement for Step. The workers, believing that the meeting is about a buy-out of the factory by General Mills, organize a strike. Frustrated by Adler's uncompromising negotiating style and the growing disrespect from his employees, Joel storms out and goes home—where Suzie admits her affair with Brad to him. Joel admits to Suzie that he hired Brad to do it, then leaves after arguing with his wife.Joel moves into a motel, where he spots Cindy, staying in another room. When he goes to her room, he notices a purse stolen from one of his employees, along with other stolen items, and realizes that Cindy is not only a thief, but is also behind a lot of the company's problems. Joel threatens to call the police, but softens when Cindy breaks down in tears. Cindy promises to talk to Step and get him to drop the lawsuit. Ultimately, the two spend the night together. The next morning, Cindy disappears, but leaves the stolen items behind.Step meets with Joel at the factory, where he offers to drop the lawsuit if Joel promotes him to floor manager. Meanwhile, while cleaning the pool herself, Nathan stops by and Suzie loses her temper, finally telling him what she really thinks of him and all the things Joel probably wanted to say to him, and just as she finishes her tirade, he collapses and dies. Feeling guilty, Suzie attends the funeral, where she runs into Joel. After a few awkward moments, the two agree to share a ride later, hinting at a possible reconciliation. It is revealed that Cindy has scammed Adler, too: she steals his luxury car, leaving him Step's truck in its place.