Fired Up! is a 2009 American teen comedy film directed by Will Gluck, who is also credited with writing the movie under the pseudonym Freedom Jones. The main plot revolves around two popular high school student football players (portrayed by Eric Christian Olsen and Nicholas D'Agosto) who attend a cheerleading camp for the summer to get close to its 300 female cheerleaders.Nick Brady and Shawn Colfax (Eric Christian Olsen and Nicholas D'Agosto) are two popular football players at the fictional Gerald R. Ford High School who manage to get out of football camp and later con their way into the cheerleading squad after overhearing a conversation about the camp's abundant female population of 300 cheerleaders. Their objective is to infiltrate the cheerleading camp in order to meet girls. While attending a cheer camp, Nick and Shawn realize that they actually enjoy cheering and they start to care about their squad as well as the cheer competition. Shawn develops feelings for the head cheerleader, Carly Davidson (Sarah Roemer) and Nick chases after Diora (Molly Sims), their camp coach's wife.Carly and the rest of the squad soon find out about the boys' true motives for attending cheer camp. Carly's boyfriend, Dr. Rick (David Walton), also reveals that guys initially planned to leave cheer camp before the cheer competition. They leave camp after being ejected from the squad. While attending a party at their friend's house, guys find out that they are genuinely fond of cheer camp and want their squad to succeed. They decide to return to cheer camp and help the squad in the cheer competition. While guys are doing their routine, Carly notices Rick is cheating on her with their rivals' head cheerleader, Gwyneth (AnnaLynne McCord). Shawn and Carly later focus all of their attention to the routine. The squad's routine results in their best finish yet, with a perfect attempt at executing the "Fountain of Troy" maneuver. However, when the squad go for executing the forbidden maneuver, Shawn accidentally goes for a triple backflip instead of a double like Carly and backflips into the water in front of them. The crowd gasps at the impact and the squad rushes to help, but Shawn manages to emerge and yells "Tigers!" before losing consciousness. Although the squad did not win the contest, they place ten spots better than they did last year. The film ends when Nick and Shawn end up with the girls, with Shawn and Carly kissing each other.