Halloween II is a 2009 American slasher film written, directed, and produced by Rob Zombie. The film is a sequel to Zombie's 2007 remake of 1978's Halloween, and the tenth installment of the franchise. Picking up where the 2007 film ended and then jumping ahead one year, Halloween II follows Laurie Strode as she deals with the aftermath of the previous film's events, Dr. Loomis who is trying to capitalize on those events by publishing a new book that chronicles everything that happened, and Michael Myers as he continues his search for Laurie so that he can reunite with his sister. The film sees the return of lead cast members from the 2007 film Malcolm McDowell, Scout Taylor-Compton, and Tyler Mane, who portray Dr. Loomis, Laurie Strode, and Michael Myers, respectively.In a flashback, Deborah Myers (Sheri Moon Zombie) visits her son, a young Michael Myers (Chase Wright Vanek), at Smith's Grove Sanitarium. She gives him a white horse statuette as a gift, which Michael says reminds him of a dream he had of Deborah's ghost, telling him she was going to bring him home.One year after the events of the first film, Laurie Strode (Scout Taylor-Compton) is now living with the Bracketts. Michael has been missing since last Halloween and is presumed dead, while Laurie has been having recurring nightmares about the event. Meanwhile, Michael's psychiatrist Dr. Sam Loomis (Malcolm McDowell) has chosen to turn the event into an opportunity to write another book. Elsewhere, Michael, who is still alive, has been having visions of Deborah's ghost and a younger version of himself, who instructs him that it is time to bring Laurie home, so he sets off for Haddonfield.As Michael travels to Haddonfield, Laurie begins having hallucinations that mirror Michael's and also begin to include her acting out his murders. Meanwhile, Loomis goes on tour to promote his new book, only to be criticized by the public, who blame him for Michael's actions and for exploiting the deaths of Michael's victims. When Loomis' book is released, Laurie discovers that she is really Angel Myers, Michael's long-lost sister. She goes to a party with Mya (Brea Grant) and Harley (Angela Trimbur) to escape how she is feeling. Michael appears and kills Harley, then goes to the Brackett house and fatally wounds Annie Brackett (Danielle Harris). When Laurie and Mya arrive, Michael kills Mya and then comes after Laurie, who manages to escape. Laurie flags down a car, but Michael kills the driver and flips the car over with Laurie still inside. Michael then takes the unconscious Laurie to an abandoned shed.The police discover Michael's location and surround the shed. Loomis arrives and goes inside to try to reason with Michael. Inside, he finds Laurie, who is hallucinating a younger Michael holding her down, and tries telling her that no one is restraining her. Just then, Deborah instructs the older Michael that it is time to go home; Michael attacks Loomis and kills him. Stepping in front of a window while holding Loomis' body, Michael is shot twice by Annie's father, Sheriff Leigh Brackett (Brad Dourif), and falls into the spikes of some farming equipment. Apparently released from her visions, Laurie walks over and tells Michael she loves him, then stabs him repeatedly. The shed door opens and Laurie walks out, wearing Michael's mask. Later, Laurie sits in isolation in a psychiatric ward, grinning at a vision of Deborah.