Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is a 2009 British-American[3] fantasy film directed by David Yates and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures.[2] It is based on the novel of the same name by J. K. Rowling. The film, which is the sixth instalment in the Harry Potter film series, was written by Steve Kloves and produced by David Heyman and David Barron.[4] The story follows Harry Potter's sixth year at Hogwarts as he becomes obsessed with a mysterious textbook, falls in love, and attempts to retrieve a memory that holds the key to Lord Voldemort's downfall.After his exposure to the wizarding world, Lord Voldemort is tightening his grip on both the wizarding and Muggle worlds, kidnapping Ollivander from Diagon Alley and destroying the Millennium Bridge. After the Malfoy family is disgraced when Lucius is apprehended and sent to Azkaban for his involvement with the Death Eaters, Voldemort chooses Draco to carry out a secret mission at Hogwarts. Bellatrix Lestrange and Narcissa Malfoy, Draco's mother, seek help from Severus Snape, who claims to have been acting as a mole within the Order of the Phoenix all along and makes an Unbreakable Vow with Narcissa to protect Draco, and fulfill the assignment if he fails.Harry accompanies Albus Dumbledore to a Tube station to visit former Potions professor Horace Slughorn, who has gone into hiding, but agrees to return to teach at Hogwarts. Dumbledore then takes Harry to The Burrow, where Harry reunites with his best friends, Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger. When the three go visit the Weasley brothers' new joke shop at Diagon Alley, they see Draco entering Knockturn Alley with a group of Death Eaters, including Fenrir Greyback. Harry believes Voldemort has made Draco a Death Eater, but Ron and Hermione are skeptical. On the Hogwarts Express, Harry hides in the Slytherin carriage using his Invisibility Cloak, but is spotted by Malfoy and knocked out, although he is saved by Luna Lovegood. At Hogwarts, Harry and Ron borrow textbooks for Slughorn's Potions class, and Harry is stuck with a copy that turns out to be filled with helpful notes, instructions, and spells left by the book's previous owner, the "Half-Blood Prince". Using the book, Harry excels in the class and impresses Slughorn, winning a vial of Felix Felicis potion, a brew that allows the consumer perfect luck. Ron becomes Keeper of the Gryffindor Quidditch team and forms a romantic relationship with Lavender Brown, upsetting Hermione. Harry consoles Hermione, revealing that he now has feelings for Ron's younger sister, Ginny Weasley.Harry spends the Christmas holidays with the Weasleys. On Christmas Eve, Harry discusses his suspicions about Draco to the Order of the Phoenix. Although he is immediately dismissed by Remus Lupin, Arthur Weasley claims that the Malfoys may have been interested in a Vanishing Cabinet. Later, Bellatrix and Greyback raid and set fire to the Burrow. Back at Hogwarts, Ron is accidentally given a love potion intended for Harry. Although Slughorn cures him, Ron is nearly killed when he drinks poisoned mead, a drink originally intended for Dumbledore. While recovering, Ron murmurs Hermione's name, causing Lavender to end their relationship. Harry confronts Draco and severely injures him with a Sectumsempra curse taken from the textbook of the Half-Blood Prince. Snape enters and quickly heals Draco's wound. Fearing the book may be filled with more Dark Magic, Ginny and Harry hide it in the Room of Requirement and share their first kiss.Dumbledore shows Harry memories of a young Tom Riddle and reveals that Slughorn retains a memory critical to Voldemort's defeat. Dumbledore explains that Slughorn provided him with a false memory, showing himself refusing to help Riddle, out of shame. Harry is told to retrieve the true memory by growing closer with Slughorn, who associates himself with students he believes will be successful. Although his first attempts lead Slughorn to realize Dumbledore's plan, Harry uses his Felix Felicis potion, and convinces Slughorn to give up the memory. Harry learns that Voldemort wanted information for creating Horcruxes, objects that contain pieces of his soul. In the memory, Tom asked if dividing his soul into seven pieces was possible. Dumbledore concludes that Voldemort eventually did this, and two of his Horcruxes have already been destroyed: Tom Riddle's diary and his mother's ring. After discovering the possible location of another Horcrux, Harry and Dumbledore travel to a seaside cave where Harry convinces Dumbledore to drink a painful potion that hides the Horcrux, Slytherin's locket. A weakened Dumbledore defends them from Inferi and apparates back to Hogwarts. Meanwhile. Bellatrix, Greyback, and more Death Eaters enter Hogwarts with Draco's help through a Vanishing Cabinet in the Room of Requirement linked to the one in Diagon Alley that Draco was repairing throughout the year.Dumbledore instructs Harry to hide as Draco arrives, disarms Dumbledore, and reveals that he has been chosen by Voldemort to kill the headmaster. However, he is unable to bring himself to do it, and Snape casts the Avada Kedavra spell instead, killing Dumbledore. Harry attempts to confront Snape, but Snape overpowers him, and reveals that he is the Half-Blood Prince. Harry returns to the school to find the staff and students mourning Dumbledore. Harry later reveals to Ron and Hermione that the locket Horcrux was a fake. The locket contains a message from "R.A.B.", stating that he has stolen the real Horcrux with the intent of destroying it. Rather than return for their final year at Hogwarts, Harry, Ron and Hermione vow to seek out and destroy the remaining Horcruxes.