The Hurt Locker is a 2008 American war thriller film about an Iraq War Explosive Ordnance Disposal team who are being targeted by insurgents with booby traps, remote control detonations and ambushes. Directed by Kathryn Bigelow, it stars Jeremy Renner, Anthony Mackie, Brian Geraghty, Christian Camargo, Ralph Fiennes, David Morse, and Guy Pearce. The film shows soldiers' varying psychological reactions to the stress of combat, which though intolerable to some, is addictive to others. The story unfolds after a staff sergeant is killed by an insurgent trap and an apparently calm veteran is brought in to head the squad. His comrades suspect that their new team leader is being driven to take terrifying risks. Writer Mark Boal drew on his experience during embedded access to provide an authentic background for the production, although certain army procedures were portrayed with artistic licence.The Hurt Locker opens with a quotation from War Is a Force That Gives Us Meaning, a best-selling 2002 book by Chris Hedges, a New York Times war correspondent and journalist: "The rush of battle is a potent and often lethal addiction, for war is a drug."[2][3][4]Sergeant First Class William "Will" James (Jeremy Renner), a battle-tested, former U.S. Army Ranger, arrives as the new team leader of a U.S. Army Explosive Ordnance Disposal (EOD) unit in the Iraq War,[5][6] replacing Staff Sergeant Matthew Thompson (Guy Pearce), who was killed by an improvised explosive device (IED) in Baghdad. His team includes Sergeant J.T. Sanborn (Anthony Mackie) and Specialist Owen Eldridge (Brian Geraghty).His maverick disposal methods and attitude lead to Sanborn and Eldridge considering him reckless, raising tensions. Meanwhile, James is often approached by an Iraqi youth named "Beckham" attempting to sell DVDs. James challenges him to a game of soccer and takes a liking to him. When they are assigned to destroy some explosives, James returns to the detonation site to pick up his gloves. Sanborn openly contemplates killing him by "accidentally" triggering the explosion, making Eldridge somewhat uncomfortable.Returning to Camp Victory in their Humvee, the team encounters five armed men in traditional Arab garb and casual attire standing near a Ford Excursion, which has a flat tire. James' team has a tense encounter with their leader (Ralph Fiennes), who then reveals they are private military contractors and British mercenaries. They have captured two prisoners featured on the most-wanted Iraqi playing cards. The entire group suddenly comes under fire, and when the prisoners attempt to escape in the confusion, the leader of the mercenaries remembers the bounty for them is "dead or alive" and shoots them. Enemy snipers kill three of the mercenaries, including their leader. Sanborn and James borrow a Barrett .50 cal to dispatch three attackers, while Eldridge kills a fourth.During a raid on a warehouse, James discovers the body of a young boy, in which a live bomb has been surgically implanted. James identifies him as Beckham. During evacuation, Lieutenant Colonel John Cambridge, the camp's psychiatrist and a friend of Eldridge's, is killed in an explosion; Eldridge blames himself for his death. Later, James breaks into the house of an Iraqi professor, seeking revenge for Beckham, but his search reveals nothing and he leaves.Called to a petrol tanker detonation, James decides on his own to hunt for the insurgents responsible, guessing they are still nearby. Sanborn protests, but when James heads out, he and Eldridge reluctantly follow. After they split up, insurgents capture Eldridge. James and Sanborn rescue him, but accidentally shoot him in the leg. The following morning, James is approached by Beckham, who he believed was dead, and walks by without saying a word. Before being airlifted for surgery elsewhere, Eldridge angrily blames James for his injury.James and Sanborn's unit is called to another mission in their last two days of their rotation. An innocent Iraqi civilian man has had a bomb vest strapped to his chest. James tries to cut off the locks to remove the vest, but there are too many of them. He has to abandon the man, who is killed when the bomb explodes. Sanborn is left distraught by the man's death. He confesses to James that he can no longer cope with the pressure, and he wants to return home and have a son.After Bravo Company's rotation ends, James returns home to his ex-wife Connie and their infant son, who still live with him in his house. However, he is bored by and disconnected from routine civilian life. One night, James confesses to his son that there is only one thing that he knows he loves. Shortly thereafter, he starts another tour of duty, serving with Delta Company, a U.S. Army EOD unit on its 365-day rotation.