Knowing (stylized as KNOW1NG)[3] is a 2009 science fiction thriller film directed by Alex Proyas and starring Nicolas Cage. The project was originally attached to a number of directors under Columbia Pictures, but it was placed in turnaround and eventually picked up by Escape Artists. Production was financially backed by Summit Entertainment. Knowing was filmed in Docklands Studios Melbourne, Australia, using various locations to represent the film's Boston-area setting.In 1959, student Lucinda Embry (Lara Robinson) hears whispers as she stares at the Sun. When her idea to make a time capsule is chosen by the school, each child is asked to draw what they believe the future will look like. Lucinda writes a page of seemingly random numbers and adds it to the time capsule, which is set to be opened in 50 years. Lucinda's teacher, Miss Taylor (Danielle Carter), calls for the pupils to finish but Lucinda continues until her teacher takes the page off her desk unfinished. Lucinda then goes missing after the time capsule is dedicated, and is found by her teacher in a utility closet scratching numbers into the door with her fingernails bleeding.In 2009, Caleb Koestler (Chandler Canterbury) is a student at the same elementary school. When the time capsule is opened, Caleb is supposed to read and write about some of the capsule's contents. He's given the page of numbers written by Lucinda. His widowed father John (Nicolas Cage), a professor of astrophysics at MIT, notices that the numbers have a specific set of sequences, with some digits referring to the dates and death tolls of major disasters over the last 50 years, including 911012996, apparently representing the date ("9/11/01", in m/d/yy format) and death toll ("2996") of the 9/11 attacks. The last three sets of digits on the page are dated in the immediate future.In the following days, a car drives by the family home with two strangers. They give Caleb a small smooth black stone.John witnesses a plane crash on a freeway on the day that the paper had predicted that a disaster would occur next. He tries to save several victims, but in vain. He then learns that the remaining unexplained digits on the paper are the geographic coordinates of the location of each disaster predicted on the paper. Caleb then has a vision of one of the strangers in his bedroom. He then looks through the window and sees the forest outside his room ablaze, with animals running from the fire.



Copy of Matthäus Merian's engraving of Ezekiel's "chariot vision" (1670).

John tracks down Lucinda's daughter Diana (Rose Byrne) and her granddaughter Abby. After hearing about the events that happened so far, she becomes apprehensive and scared. John then gives up his son to his sister. Soon afterwards, a major derailment occurs on the New York City Subway, which John fails to prevent. Diana then believes John and visits him. She says that her mother used to hear voices, and that the next (and also last) date in the document, October 19, was the day Lucinda always said Diana would die. Searching Lucinda's mobile home, they find pictures of the disasters she predicted, a copy of Matthäus Merian's engraving of Ezekiel's "chariot vision", and a pile of small smooth stones near Lucinda's bed. The last number in the document appears at first to be "33", but they notice that it is really "EE" written backwards. They figure out that EE means "Everyone Else", representing an Extinction Level Event which no one will escape from.The next day, Abby shows John that she has coloured in the sun on the Ezekiel's "Chariot vision" engraving. After seeing the image, John gets a sudden revelation as he realises that this could be how the world will end. He rushes them to the MIT observatory, where he discovers that a massive solar flare will soon reach Earth, making it uninhabitable. John and Diana argue over what is best to do to prepare for the incoming solar flare. After the argument, Diana leaves with both children. As Diana stops at a nearby gas station, an emergency broadcast is transmitted to alert the world of the solar flare. While Diana is on the phone with John, the strangers take the children. Diana chases after them but her car is hit by a truck. John, rushing to catch up with them, arriving just as Diana dies at exactly midnight of October 19 and finds the smooth, black stone in Diana's hand. He goes back to Lucinda's mobile home, finding the children and the strangers waiting in a dry river bed covered with the similar black stones. A space ship descends from the sky. John is refused entry and the ship departs with the children. A distant shot shows many similar space ships leaving Earth.The next morning, John drives to his estranged father's home. John and his family embrace as the flare sets the entire planet ablaze, destroying everything and killing all life still on the surface. Caleb and Abby are deposited by the beings on an Earth-like planet. In the final scene, they are seen running through a beautiful field of wheat towards a giant white tree which resembles the tree of life.