Law Abiding Citizen is a 2009 American crime drama thriller film directed by F. Gary Gray from a screenplay written by Kurt Wimmer and stars Gerard Butler and Jamie Foxx. The film takes place in Philadelphia and tells the story of a man driven to seek justice while targeting not only his family's killer but also those who have supported a corrupt criminal justice system, intending to assassinate anyone supporting the system. Law Abiding Citizen was released theatrically in North America on October 16, 2009.[3]In a home invasion, Clarence Darby kills the wife and daughter of Clyde Shelton. Prosecutor Nick Rice is unable to securely convict Darby. Unwilling to take a chance on lowering his high conviction rate, he makes a deal with Darby, who pleads guilty to a lesser charge and receives a reduced sentence for testifying against his accomplice, Rupert Ames. Ames is convicted and sentenced to death. Darby is released after a few years. Clyde feels betrayed by Rice's actions and the justice system.Ten years later, Ames is executed. Unknown to the prosecutors and witnesses, the drug usually used has been replaced with an anticonvulsant, causing Ames to die painfully. Evidence implicates Darby. An anonymous caller alerts Darby as the police draw near and directs him to a remote location. Clyde, disguised as a police officer, reveals himself as the caller and paralyzes Darby with poison. He straps Darby to a table and videorecords dismembering him. When Darby's remains are found, evidence ties his death to Clyde. Clyde willingly surrenders and goes to prison.After Rice learns his wife and daughter were sent the dismemberment video and were traumatized by it, he initially refuses a plea bargain with Clyde. District Attorney Jonas Cantrell orders Rice to make a deal. In court, Clyde represents himself and successfully argues he should be granted bail, then berates the judge for accepting the "bullshit" legal precedents he cited and for being too eager to let madmen and murderers back on the street. The judge jails Clyde for contempt of court.Clyde demands a steak lunch be delivered to his cell by a specific time, in return for telling where to find Darby's lawyer, who was reported missing earlier. Rice agrees, though the lunch is delayed by a few minutes by the warden's security measures. Once he has his meal, Clyde provides a set of coordinates, where Rice and the others find Darby's lawyer, buried alive but suffocated while Clyde's dinner was delayed. Clyde kills his cellmate, forcing the warden to secure him in solitary confinement.Cantrell arranges a meeting with a CIA contact and brings Rice. They learn that Clyde previously worked with the agency, creating imaginative assassination devices. Further, they are warned Clyde can kill anyone he wishes. During a meeting with Rice and Cantrell, the judge dies when her cell phone explodes. A number of Rice's assistants die from car bombs. As Rice and Cantrell leave the funeral of one of Rice's assistants, a weaponized bomb disposal robot kills Cantrell. The mayor puts the city under lockdown and promotes Rice to acting District Attorney.Rice learns Clyde owns an auto garage near the prison. A tunnel from the garage leads to a cache of guns, disguises, and other equipment below the solitary confinement cells, and secret entrances to each cell. He and Police Detective Dunnigan realize Clyde wanted to be in solitary, allowing him to easily leave the prison without detection and commit the murders. Evidence in the tunnel points Rice to Clyde's next target, city hall, where the mayor is holding an emergency meeting. Rice and his men cannot find Clyde but discover evidence pointing to a cell-phone-activated suitcase bomb in the room directly below the meeting.Clyde returns to his garage after planting the city hall bomb, then returns to his cell. He is surprised to find Rice waiting for him. Rice berates Clyde for taking revenge because of the pain he suffered. Clyde suggests another deal, but Rice refuses, saying he no longer makes deals with murderers, which he thanks Clyde for teaching him. Rice and Dunnigan secure Clyde in the cell and flee. Despite being pleased Rice finally learned his lesson, Clyde dials the cell phone on the city hall bomb. Clyde realizes too late Rice has moved the bomb to his cell, which is now sealed. Clyde looks upon his daughter's bracelet with a sense of sadness, accepting his fate as the bomb explodes.