Madea Goes to Jail is a 2009 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Tyler Perry, which was based on his 2006 play. The play and the film deal with Perry's signature character Madea going to prison for her uncontrollable anger management problems. The film was released on February 20, 2009.After a high-speed freeway police chase (seen in Meet the Browns) results in Mabel "Madea" Simmons' arrest, she is placed in an anger management course, and admits her permanent license suspension. Returning home from court, Madea finds a party taking place in her house hosted by her brother, Joe Simmons, who is trying to cheer up Madea. However, Madea is not amused by the festivities and uses a machine gun to scare the party goers away.Madea consults with Doctor Phil McGraw for anger management, but does not cooperate with McGraw. Returning home, Madea, needing to buy groceries, calls Cora to drive her to the store, but Cora declines, angering Madea. Joe predicts that Madea will get into trouble if she goes to the store, but Madea ignores him and goes anyway, driving in her car. At Kmart, a woman steals the parking space that Madea was about to take, so she commandeers a forklift truck to remove the woman's car from the space, wrecking the car in the process. Madea is arrested and brought to court again, where Judge Greg Mathis sentences her to prison for five to ten years.Meanwhile, assistant district attorney Joshua Hardaway is on the fast track to career success. He is prosecuting a young prostitute and drug addict, Candace "Candy" Washington, with whom he is already acquainted. Josh asks his fiancée and fellow ADA Linda Davis to fill in on his behalf, but when Josh takes Candy out to eat and gives her his business card for future assistance, and even rescues her from a pimp, Linda gets jealous and fears Josh may be cheating on her. Although Josh tries to assure her that he is only trying to help a friend, Linda threatens to leave him unless he stops seeing and talking about Candace. She then tells him that it was Candace's own fault for being who she is, and that he should only socialize with a higher class of people. Conversely, Candace sees right through Linda and tells Josh that it will never work between them since they are too different; Linda is too classist and stuck-up to show sympathy for people who have a lower status than her, while he actually cares about helping anyone he sees in trouble.Josh later meets Ellen, a former prostitute who has now become a minister. After Josh asks Ellen to help Candace, Ellen gets her a job interview, but it results in sexual harassment by the interviewer, who Candace kicks in the groin before storming out. Just before Madea's trial, Ellen asks Josh how he knows Candace. He tells Ellen that they were close friends from childhood through college, but all his friends mistreated and bullied Candace, and he started pushing her away out of embarrassment. He then breaks down when he talks about one particular night when he took her to a party. He ended up going on a date and leaving Candace behind at the party, where a group of his friends gang raped her in his absence, for which Josh continues to harbor deep-seated guilt. Ellen comforts him and tells him that he should not continue holding on to the guilt and that it was not completely his fault, since Candace already had personal troubles beforehand.At the district attorney's office, Josh's best friend, Chuck, runs into Linda and discovers that she is falsifying Candace's file to deliberately get her sent to prison and away from Josh, a practice she has been engaged with other defendants as well, including Madea. Linda blackmails him to keep his mouth shut under the threat of telling the head A.D.A. that Chuck cheated on his bar exam to get his job. Candace refuses to show up to her case and returns to prostitution, until she is arrested by an undercover policeman. Due to Linda's falsifying of her file, the judge gives her a seventeen-year prison sentence. Linda later lies to Josh back at the office and tells him that she "tried" to be lenient. Chuck overhears this and nearly tells Josh the truth, but hesitates because of Linda's previous threat towards him.When Candace ends up in prison, she discovers that Donna, one of her best friends who has also been arrested for prostitution, is also there. Madea is shocked when she meets her cellmate, a seemingly insane serial killer named T.T., who is serving a life sentence for murdering 18 men.While in prison, Madea befriends Candace, and comes to her defense when she is sexually harassed by Big Sal. Candace, Madea, T.T., and Donna attend a class taught by Ellen at the prison, in order to have time reduced from their sentences. During a lesson about forgiveness, Madea notices that some of the inmates would rather play victim instead of taking the blame for their crimes. She tells the class they need to stop seeing themselves as victims and forgive those who led them on the bad paths they've been on, as they weren't the ones who ended up in jail. Candace is moved by her words, and during a visit with Josh, she admits that back when she was raped at the party he took her to, she called his name repeatedly as the attack happened, but he never came for her. Candace held on to her anger at him for so long, she forgot how to move on, which resulted in her dropping out of school and becoming a drug addict and prostitute. But with everything she learned from Ellen and Madea, she finally decides to forgive Josh and pick up the pieces of her life.On Josh's wedding day, Chuck, serving as best man, finally tells him that Linda falsified Candace's file. During the ceremony, Josh, disgusted by Linda's deceit, tells the congregation, including his and Linda's boss, what Linda has done, and jilts her at the altar. Josh then rushes to the prison where he admits to Candace that he loves her and will help her get out of jail and restore her life. Because of the now-revealed news of Linda's tampering with client files, there is a public outcry and a protest movement gains momentum to set Madea, Candace, and the others free. In the end, Candace, Madea, and five other women that Linda prosecuted have their convictions overturned and are released, while Linda inevitably faces arrest, prosecution, and imprisonment on multiple charges including fraud, evidence tampering and providing false legal documents. The film ends with Candace and Josh, now a couple, walking out of the prison and sharing a kiss in front of the press.