Monsters vs. Aliens is a 2009 American 3D computer-animated science fiction film [1] produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by Paramount Pictures.1 It was DreamWorks Animation's first feature film to be directly produced in a stereoscopic 3-D format instead of being converted into 3-D after completion, which added $15 million to the film's budget.[2]Susan Murphy (Reese Witherspoon) of Modesto, California is going to be married to news weatherman Derek Dietl (Paul Rudd). But before the ceremony, she gets hit by a meteorite and its energy causes her to grow uncontrollably during the ceremony. As a side-effect, her hair turns white. She is tranquilized by the military and awakens in a top secret government facility that houses monsters of which the public is ignorant. She meets General W.R. Monger (Kiefer Sutherland), the Army officer in charge of the facility, and her fellow monster inmates: Dr. Cockroach P.H.D. (Hugh Laurie), a mad scientist who became half-human, half-cockroach after an experiment; B.O.B. (Benzoate Ostylezene Bicarbonate) (Seth Rogen), a brainless, living mass of goo as a result of a food flavoring mutation; Insectosaurus, a massive mutated bug standing 350 feet in height, and the Missing Link (Will Arnett), a prehistoric fish-ape hybrid who was thawed from deep ice. Susan herself has been renamed to Ginormica.In deep space, an alien overlord named Gallaxhar (Rainn Wilson) is alerted to the presence of quantonium, a powerful energy source on Earth, and he sends a robotic probe to retrieve it. The probe later lands on Earth where the President of the United States (Stephen Colbert) attempts to make first contact with it. However, the attempt fails and the probe goes on a destructive rampage, headed straight for San Francisco.Monger convinces the President to grant the monsters their freedom if they can stop the probe. The robot detects the quantonium radiating through Susan's body and tries to take it from her, putting many lives at risk. At the Golden Gate Bridge, the monsters work together to save the people and manage to defeat the probe, at the cost of destroying the bridge.Unbeknownst to the monsters, Gallaxhar sets course for Earth to obtain the quantonium in person while the now-free Susan returns home with her new friends and reunites with her family. However, the monsters alienate themselves from the humans due to their inexperience with social situations. Derek later breaks off his engagement with Susan, claiming that he cannot marry someone who would overshadow him and his career. Heartbroken, the monsters reunite, but Susan realizes that her life is better as a monster and promises not to sell herself short to anyone again.Suddenly, Susan is pulled into Gallaxhar's ship. Insectosaurus tries to save her, but he is shot down by the ship's plasma cannons, seemingly killing him.Gallaxhar extracts the quantonium from Susan, shrinking her back to her normal size. Gallaxhar then uses the extracted quantonium to create clones of himself in order to launch a full-scale invasion of Earth. Monger manages to secretly get the monsters on board the ship. They rescue Susan and make their way to the main power core where Dr. Cockroach sets the ship to self-destruct to prevent the invasion. All but Susan are trapped as the blast doors close and she goes to personally confront Gallaxhar on the bridge. With her time running out, she sends the ball of stored quantonium down on herself, restoring her monstrous size and strength. After rescuing her friends, they flee the ship and meet with Monger and Insectosaurus, who has morphed into a butterfly after having been in a cocoon following the attack. As they flee, the ship self-destructs with Gallaxhar and his army still on board, killing the aliens inside.Returning to Modesto, Susan and the monsters receive a hero's welcome. Hoping to take advantage of Susan's fame for his own career, Derek tries to get back together with her, but she rejects him before a television audience by flicking him high into the air, only to be swallowed and spat out by B.O.B. Monger then arrives to tell the monsters about a new monstrous snail called Escargantua making its way to Paris. The monsters take off and fly away to Paris to confront the new menace.