Notorious is a 2009 American biographical drama film directed by George Tillman Jr. that follows the life and murder of Christopher Wallace, an American rapper better known by the stage name "The Notorious B.I.G". The film stars Jamal Woolard, Angela Bassett, Derek Luke, and Anthony Mackie, and was released by Fox Searchlight Pictures. The film opens at a party in Los Angeles, California on March 8, 1997. Just as The Notorious B.I.G. is about to be killed in a shooting, the film flashes back to Biggie's childhood in Brooklyn, New York where he lived during his childhood years as a school student but begins dealing drugs. Chris, now older, sells drugs at the height of the crack epidemic, hustling with D-Roc and Lil' Cease.When his girlfriend, Jan Jackson, tells him that she is pregnant, he takes drug dealing seriously, so he can earn more money to support his family. Christopher eventually participates in a rap battle, where he wins, but his mom, Voletta Wallace, kicks him out of her house after finding drugs and the fact he hadn't been attending school.Chris gets caught with guns and drugs, and serves nine months before being bailed. Christopher meets Kim Jones, but Kim refuses to pursue a relationship with him due to her abusive past. After reconciling with his mom and visiting his newborn daughter, T'Yanna, he records a demo under the name "Biggie Smalls", which catches the attention of Puff, an ambitious record producer for Uptown. Puff promises him a record deal but Chris finds out that Puff was fired by Uptown, to his disappointment. Soon afterwards, he and D-Roc are again arrested for a gun, but D-Roc takes the blame to allow Chris to pursue his music career.Biggie becomes depressed when he finds out his mom Voletta has been diagnosed with breast cancer, but is cheered up when Puff signs him to his newly established record label, Bad Boy, and he records his debut album, Ready to Die. At a Bad Boy photo-shoot, Biggie meets R&B singer Faith Evans. The two begin a relationship, and get married afterwards in August 1994. However, Faith catches Biggie cheating. The two later reconcile but the tensions between him, Faith, Jan, and Kim continue to grow.Biggie meets 2Pac while celebrating the release of Ready to Die. Biggie admires 2Pac, but questions people he associates with, telling him to watch the company he keeps while he's in New York. When 2Pac is robbed and shot five times at Quad Studios, he blames Bad Boy. At The Source Awards in 1995, Suge Knight makes a speech dissing Bad Boy.After altercations between the two rappers, the disagreement escalates into the media referring to an "East Coast-West Coast rivalry" and attacks are made on both sides. At the 1996 Soul Train Awards in Los Angeles, Biggie receives a death threat from an unknown caller. At the after party, 2Pac and Suge Knight verbally assault Biggie, but leave when Biggie's security threatens them.A song called "Who Shot Ya?" is released by Biggie, which is interpreted as a diss track against at 2Pac. Biggie and Puffy claim that "Who Shot Ya?" was recorded before 2Pac was shot, but 2Pac responds with "Hit 'Em Up" where he disses Bad Boy. After seeing a magazine photo of 2Pac and Faith together, Biggie confronts Faith but she insists nothing happened between her and 2Pac.Biggie and Faith attempt to reconcile after she tells him that she is pregnant with his child. The rivalry between the East and West coast continues to escalate. At a concert in Sacramento, California, Biggie gets booed. After this, Biggie performs "Who Shot Ya?". The rivalry between Biggie and 2Pac continues until 2Pac is killed in Las Vegas, Nevada. Voletta tells Biggie that 2Pac was probably killed as a result of their feud, which shakes him up. Biggie attempts to ease the tensions in his life by visiting Jan and T'Yanna more often.Biggie and D-Roc renew their friendship after D-Roc is released from prison and Biggie confides that he wants out of the rap game. However, Biggie decides to go to Los Angeles, California to promote his upcoming album Life After Death, bringing D-Roc and Lil' Cease with him along with Puff and Faith. While there, Biggie receives more death threats. After calling Lil' Kim to apologize and arrange a meeting with her, he leaves the party. The film returns to the opening scene, where Biggie is killed by an unknown gunman.His funeral is held a few days later, where friends and colleagues mourn, along with thousands of fans, who line the streets to pay their respects. A member of the crowd turns on a radio which plays Biggie's song "Hypnotize" and the crowd dances as Biggie's casket is driven down the city's streets.