Pandorum is a German-British 2009 science fiction horror film, with elements of Lovecraftian horror, and survival adventure. The film was directed by Christian Alvart and produced by Robert Kulzer, Jeremy Bolt and Paul W.S. Anderson. Travis Milloy wrote the screenplay from a story by Milloy and Alvart. It stars Dennis Quaid and Ben Foster. Filming began in Berlin in August 2008. Pandorum was released on 25 September 2009 in the United States,[3] and on 2 October 2009 in the UK.In 2174, the human population has exceeded the carrying capacity of Earth, leading humanity to build a huge interstellar ark named Elysium. It carries 60,000 people on a 123-year trip to colonize an Earth-like planet named Tanis. The passengers are placed in hypersleep, with a rotating crew who take turns awakening from hypersleep each two years to maintain the ship. Eight years into the mission, the ship receives a transmission from Earth in multiple languages: "You're all that's left of us. Good luck, God bless, and godspeed."Some unknown time later, two members of the flight crew, Corporal Bower and Lieutenant Payton, are awakened. Improper emergence from the hibernatory state leaves them both with partial amnesia. The ship is experiencing power surges caused by an unstable nuclear reactor, and they are unable to enter the bridge.While Payton stays behind to attempt to access the ship's computer, Bower ventures into the seemingly abandoned ship using the ventilation system with the intention of stabilising the reactor. He begins to suffer from "Pandorum, or "Orbital Dysfunction Syndrome" (a severe psychotic illness known to affect deep-space travelers). Pandorum led to the failure of a previous mission, as the captain of the starship called Eden, so afflicted with Pandorum that he became convinced that the flight was cursed, ejected all 5,000 passengers to their deaths.Bower encounters Nadia, a geneticist, and Manh, an agriculturist, and they are attacked by a group of fast and vicious cannibalistic humanoids with a seemingly tribal culture. The trio flees into a barricaded chamber and finds a cook named Leland, who has been awake for years, living off the water leaking into the ship, the algae it creates, and resorting to cannibalism. Meanwhile, Payton finds a young man named Corporal Gallo, who claims that the ship is lost in space. He claimed that he killed his team in self-defense because they developed Pandorum after finding out that Earth mysteriously vanished.Leland gives food to Bower's group and shows them mural drawings depicting their true origin. According to the drawings, after Earth vanished following an unknown catastrophe, Gallo went insane. After killing his team, he begins to "play God" by awakening passengers and abusing them. Taking advantage of their mental state, Gallo then convinced these passengers, many of whom are affected by Pandorum, to exile themselves to the ship's enormous cargo hold and survive by fighting, torturing and eating each other. Eventually, Gallo went back into hypersleep, leaving the descendants of the psychotics to evolve. After multiple generations, accelerated by an enzyme produced in the hypersleep pod's feeding tubes, the passengers' descendants adapted to their living condition and became a troglofauna species, with Gallo's savage game becoming the centre of their culture.After eating Leland's drug-laden food, the group falls asleep. When they wake up, Leland is preparing to kill and butcher them. Bower convinces him to let them fix the ship's reactor, otherwise the ship will be destroyed, killing them all. Noticing the ship's power has been unstable recently, Leland agrees to free the group. Bower hopes to find his wife on the ship before the creatures do, but later his memories come back to him and he remembers that she divorced him and stayed on Earth, disappearing along with the rest of the planet. This revelation almost makes him give up on the mission and pushes him closer to insanity.When Bower's group finds the reactor, they find a large crowd of mutants sleeping around it. Bower tries to access the reactor computer by sneaking, but fails. While Manh distracts the mutants, Bower restarts the reactor, killing many mutants. Leland flees, and Manh is cornered by the mutant leader. In a one-on-one fight, Manh kills the leader, but is then killed by a mutant child that he hesitates to slay.As Gallo becomes increasingly aggressive, Payton grows more worried, and prepares a sedative injection to subdue him. After the power is restored, Payton attempts to access the bridge, but Gallo assaults him and injects him with his own syringe. Gallo suddenly disappears, leaving Payton holding the syringe in his own hand. It is revealed that Gallo killed the real Payton long ago. Because he went in Payton's pod, he mistakenly believed he is Payton.Leland makes his way to the bridge, and Gallo kills him by stabbing him with the syringe. When Bower and Nadia confront him, Gallo opens the shutters on the bridge's windows, revealing that the ship is apparently adrift in deep space with no stars visible. The shock from the revelation pushes Bower even further to insanity and he begins to break down. Taking advantage of Bower's mental state, Gallo tries to convince him that they must maintain the violent society rather than attempt to revive civilization.However, Nadia observes bioluminescent ocean life through the windows, and the computer displays that 923 years have elapsed since the mission launched. It turns out that the ship reached Tanis 800 years ago, and automatically landed itself in the ocean. Gallo attacks Bower and Nadia, and Bower hallucinates mutants invading the bridge. In his delirium, Bower breaks a window and water pours into the ship. Nadia manages to snap Bower to reality, and they climb into a hypersleep pod, while Gallo and the remaining mutants drown. The flood triggers an emergency protocol which ejects all active pods to the surface.Bower and Nadia surface near a lush coastline, and witness the other pods ascending one by one. Thus begins Year One on Tanis, with 1,213 survivors from the original 60,000 passengers.