Push is a 2009 American science fiction action-thriller film directed by Paul McGuigan and written by David Bourla. Starring Chris Evans, Dakota Fanning, Camilla Belle, and Djimon Hounsou, the film centers on a group of people born with various superhuman abilities who band together in order to take down a government agency that is using a dangerous drug to enhance their powers in hopes of creating an army of super soldiers.In 1945, the United States set up the Division, a government agency that tracks, captures, and experiments on people who possess psychic abilities, creating an arms race for superhuman powers. Each psychic is categorised into various groups based on what powers they have. Decades later, two “Movers”, teenager Nick Gant and his father Jonah hide from Agent Carver, a Division “Pusher”. Jonah tells Nick he received a vision from a “Watcher”, about a young girl Nick must help to bring down the Division. Nick flees while Jonah is murdered by Carver.Years later, Carver has developed a drug which can boost psychic abilities. All test subjects have died, until a Pusher named Kira successfully adapts to it. However, she escapes, stealing a syringe of the drug and flees to Hong Kong. Nick lives in Hong Kong as an expatriate, but is visited by Cassie Holmes, a moody teenage Watcher, whose mother, Sarah, is considered the strongest Watcher, and aided in Kira’s escape. Cassie convinces Nick to help her find the briefcase containing the stolen drug. They are attacked by the Chinese triad, led by a “Bleeder”, his two sons, and a Watcher daughter nicknamed “Pop Girl”. Nick is badly wounded by the Bleeders, but is healed by Teresa Stowe, an opportunistic “Stitch”.Using the drawings Cassie creates, she and Nick track down Kira, who is actually Nick’s ex-girlfriend. Kira hid the case and then had a “Wiper” erase her memory of its location. Nick recruits a “Shadow” named Pinky to cover Kira from the sight of the Division’s Watchers. Cassie attempts to foresee the case’s location, competing with the stronger yet cocky Pop Girl. Nick’s group escape the Bleeders, before splitting up. Nick meets Carver and his assistant Victor, a talented Mover, learning Kira will become ill without the drug’s support. The Movers battle until Carver leaves, wanting the current future to go as planned. Cassie finds a key in Kira’s shoe, which unlocks a locker atop a construction site, where the case is hidden.To distract Carver and the triad, Nick proposes an elaborate plan to obtain the drug and eliminate their enemies. He creates several envelopes containing instructions for each of his friends, including “Shifter” Hook Waters and fortune teller “Sniff” Emily Hu, and employs the Wiper who erased Kira’s memory to do the same to his regarding the plan, to throw off Pop Girl. Hooks locates the case, creating a duplicate of it and the syringe, while Pinky delivers Kira to Carver as part of the plan. Carver then pushes her into believing she is actually a Division agent and her relationship with Nick was a lie.Cassie is confronted by Pop Girl, only for the Wiper to appear and erases the girl’s memory, as per instructions from Nick. Nick, upon regaining his memories, visits Carver, discovering Kira’s brainwashing. They travel to the construction site where Carver unknowingly retrieves the fake case, but the triad arrive, leading to a lengthy battle between the various factions. During the fight, the triad members and Victor are killed. Nick seizes the fake syringe and injects himself with it, apparently dying. After Kira and Carver leave, Cassie appears, revealing Nick is alive. They retrieve the real case and syringe from a dumpster, planning to use it to free Cassie’s mother from Division, who had foreseen the whole narrative and plotted it out before her capture.In a final scene, Kira discovers her unopened envelope, which contains photographs proving her relationship with Nick was real. She then pushes Carver into committing suicide.