Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen is a 2009 American science fiction action film directed by Michael Bay and executive produced by Steven Spielberg, based on the toy line of the same name created by Hasbro. It is the sequel to 2007's Transformers, as well as the second installment in the live-action Transformers film series. Taking place two years after its predecessor, the plot revolves around Sam Witwicky, who is caught in the war between two factions of alien robots, the Autobots, led by Optimus Prime and the Decepticons, led by Megatron. Sam is having strange visions of Cybertronian symbols, and being hunted by the Decepticons under the orders of an ancient Decepticon named The Fallen, who seeks to get revenge on Earth by finding and activating a machine that would provide the Decepticons with an energon source, destroying the sun and all life on Earth in the process. Returning Transformers include Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, Ironhide, Ratchet, Megatron, Starscream, and Scorponok.




This section may require copy editing for grammar, style, cohesion, tone, or spelling. You can assist by editing it. (April 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

In 17,000 B.C., the Seven Primes travel the galaxy to create Energon with star-absorbing machines named Sun Harvesters. The Primes followed a rule: never destroy planets with life; however, one of them, Megatronus Prime, later known as The Fallen, defies this and establishes a Sun Harvester on Earth. He is confronted by the other Primes, who imprison him before he can harvest the planet's Sun with the Matrix of Leadership. The Primes then sacrifice themselves to hide the Matrix in an unknown location.Two years after Megatron's defeat, the Autobots join the U.S military to form the Non-Biological Extraterrestrial Species Treaty (NEST), the purpose of which is to hunt down the surviving Decepticons. During a mission in Shanghai, the Autobots intercept two Decepticons, Demolisher and Sideways. They send in new recruits Sideswipe, Skids, Mudflap, Arcee, Chromia and Elita One to hunt them down. Sideswipe successfully kills Sideways, while Demolisher is ambushed by Optimus Prime. He tells Prime of the Fallen's return, but Optimus kills him before he can reveal further information. National Security Adviser Theodore Galloway scolds the task force sarcastically for their tactics, reminding them that Megatron's corpse is still resting at the bottom of the Laurentian Abyss and the last known AllSpark shard is locked up in NEST's headquarters. Simultaneously, Soundwave hacks into a U.S. military satellite, overhears the information, and sends Ravage to retrieve the shard.Meanwhile, Sam Witwicky is preparing to attend college, leaving his girlfriend Mikaela Banes and guardian Bumblebee behind. He discovers a smaller AllSpark shard in his jacket, and picks it up, causing him to see Cybertronian symbols. Sam gives the shard to Mikaela, who later captures Decepticon Wheelie when he attempts to steal it. The Constructicons resurrect Megatron by brutally ripping apart the Constructicon Scrapmetal to provide parts for him. Megatron then travels to a moon of Saturn, where he reunites with his master, The Fallen, who orders him to capture Sam alive and kill Optimus, as he is the only Transformer who can defeat The Fallen. Sam, Mikaela and his college roommate, Leo are captured by the Decepticon Grindor and are brought to an abandoned factory. Megatron reveals that the symbols in Sam's mind will lead the Decepticons to a new Energon source before Optimus and Bumblebee arrive to rescue the trio. Optimus engages Megatron, Starscream, and Grindor; though Optimus injures Starscream by cutting his arm off and killing Grindor, Megatron ambushes Optimus and kills him by impaling him through the chest, destroying his spark. As Megatron kills Optimus he says "You're so weak" and The other Autobots arrive and repel the Decepticons, forcing Megatron and Starscream to retreat. Afterwards, the Decepticons launch an international assault on many areas around the world simultaneously. The Fallen hijacks Earth's telecommunications systems, demanding Sam to be turned over to him.Sam, Mikaela, and Leo enlist the help of former Sector 7 agent, Seymour Simmons, who reveals that the Transformers visited Earth eons ago and the most ancient, known as Seekers, live in secret. With help from Wheelie, they track down a Decepticon Seeker named Jetfire. They use the AllSpark shard to revive Jetfire, who afterwards teleports the group to Egypt and orders them to locate the Matrix of Leadership, which will revive Optimus. He and Wheelie turn against the Decepticons. Sam's group finds the Matrix which is located in Petra, but it disintegrates into dust in Sam's hands. Undeterred, Sam stuffs the Matrix's remains into his sock. Meanwhile, NEST forces and the Autobots land near the Giza pyramid complex but are attacked by a large force of Decepticons. During the battle, the Constructicons combine to form Devastator, who destroys one of the pyramids, revealing the Sun Harvester inside, before he is killed by a railgun called in by Simmons. Lennox and Epps call in an airstrike, which kills a large portion of the Decepticon ground forces. However, Megatron manages to shoot Sam, seemingly killing him. Nearing his death, the Primes contact Sam through a vision, telling him the Matrix is not found, it is earned and that he earned the right to bear it. They restore Sam's life and the Matrix, which is used to revive Optimus.The Fallen teleports to their location and steals the Matrix from Optimus, then returns to the pyramid with Megatron and activates the Sun Harvester. A wounded Jetfire sacrifices himself in order for Optimus to gain his parts, which give him immense strength and the ability to fly. Optimus knocks The Fallen and Megatron off the pyramid, destroying the Sun Harvester in the process. In the battle, Optimus injures and disables Megatron. Optimus then kills the Fallen; vowing vengeance, Megatron retreats with Starscream. The victorious Autobots and their allies then return to the United States, having saved the world.