Bully is a 2001 American psychological crime drama film directed by Larry Clark, and starring Brad Renfro, Bijou Phillips, Rachel Miner, Michael Pitt, Leo Fitzpatrick, Kelli Garner, and Nick Stahl. Based on the 1993 murder of Bobby Kent, the plot follows several young adults in South Florida who enact a murder plot against a mutual friend who has emotionally, physically and sexually abused them for years. The screenplay was written by David McKenna (under the pseudonym Zachary Long) and Roger Pullis, who adapted the book Bully: A True Story of High School Revenge by Jim Schutze.Ali Willis (Bijou Phillips) and Lisa Connelly (Rachel Miner) are friends with Bobby Kent (Nick Stahl) and Marty Puccio (Brad Renfro). They all go out on a double date. While in a parked car, Ali performs oral sex on Bobby, while Lisa and Marty have sex in the back seat. Lisa later learns she is pregnant, but is afraid that the child is Bobby's instead of Marty's, since Bobby raped her after beating Marty unconscious.Bobby emotionally and physically abuses Marty, and also rapes Ali. Marty reveals to Lisa that the abuse has been going on since they were kids, starting with Marty taking drugs at an early age, which Marty thinks that Bobby has been using to take advantage of him. Marty and Bobby then go to a gay bar, where he is forced to strip down to his underwear, and begins to dance, while Bobby starts to videotape the whole ordeal. Lisa eventually proposes that they murder Bobby.Ali recruits her new boyfriend, Donny (Michael Pitt), and her friend, Heather Swallers (Kelli Garner), while Lisa recruits her cousin, Derek Dzvirko (Daniel Franzese). After doing drugs and having sex, the teens make their first attempt, but back out. Realizing they need help, they hire a supposed "hitman", Derek Kaufman (Leo Fitzpatrick), who is just a tough-talking adolescent.The teens come up with a new plan. They arrive at a swamp, where Donny stabs Bobby in the back of the neck. Shocked by the violence, Ali, Heather, and Derek Dzvirko run back to Ali's car. Bobby begs for mercy, but Marty slits his throat, and Derek Kaufman bludgeons him with a baseball bat. Lisa witnesses it all, never turning away. They dispose of Bobby's body in the swamp and flee. Marty later realizes that he left the sheath to his diving knife at the canal. They go to retrieve the sheath, and check on the corpse, which is now being eaten by crabs. Lisa, Derek Dzvirko, Ali, and Heather do not believe they did anything wrong, since they did not directly participate in Bobby's actual death. Lisa decides to dispose of the knife, which is the only evidence linking them to the crime.Unable to maintain the secret, Derek Dzvirko and Lisa reveal to their other friends what they've done, while Ali phones in an anonymous tip to the media, alerting them to Bobby's death. Lisa calls Derek Kaufman and speaks to his younger brother, who says that Derek has already been arrested for the murder. Eventually, all the teenagers turn themselves in, with the exception of Marty, who is arrested a few days later. The group is later seen in court wearing prison jumpsuits, and Lisa visibly pregnant by this time. Marty and Donny argue, inadvertently admitting to Bobby's murder in front of the entire court. It is then revealed that the teenagers were all convicted of Bobby's murder, and list the sentences they receive:
Heather Swallers is sentenced to 7 years.
Derek Dzvirko is sentenced to 11 years.
Ali Willis is sentenced to 40 years.
Donny Semenec, Derek Kaufman and Lisa Connelly are sentenced to life in prison.
Marty Puccio is sentenced to death by the electric chair.
Subsequent title cards reveal that some of the characters and events were composited or exaggerated for dramatic effect, and the results of the defendants' appeals at the making of the film:
Lisa Connelly's sentence was reduced to 22 years.
Alice Willis was sentenced to 17 years, but would be under community supervision for 40 years upon her release.
Martin Puccio's sentence was reduced to life in prison.
