127 Hours is a 2010 biographical survival drama film directed, co-written, and produced by Danny Boyle. The film stars James Franco as Aron Ralston, a canyoneer who becomes trapped by a boulder in an isolated slot canyon in Blue John Canyon, southeastern Utah, in April 2003. It is a British and American venture produced by Everest Entertainment, Film4 Productions, HandMade Films and Cloud Eight Films.Mountaineer and adventurer Aron Ralston begins hiking at Utah's Canyonlands National Park. On foot, he befriends hikers Kristi and Megan, and shows them an underground pool. After swimming, Aron parts ways with the hikers, and continues through a slot canyon in Blue John Canyon. While climbing down, he slips and falls, knocking a boulder which smashes his right hand and wrist against the wall. Stuck, he tries calling for help but realizes that he is alone. He begins recording a video diary to maintain morale, chipping away parts of the boulder in order to free himself and to keep warm at night. He rations his food and water, in order to survive the ordeal. He sets up a pulley using his climbing rope in a futile attempt to lift the boulder.Days after being trapped, Ralston considers using his pocket knife to cut himself free, but finds the dull blade unable to cut bone. With no water, he is forced to drink his urine. His videos become desperate and depressed and he hallucinates about escape, relationships, and past experiences including a former lover, family, and Kristi and Megan. During one of the hallucinations, he realizes that his mistake was that he didn't tell anyone where he was going. He thinks that it was destiny that the boulder trapped him.Using his knowledge of applying torque, Ralston fashions a crude tourniquet out of CamelBak tube insulation and uses a carabiner to tighten it. He then slowly amputates his arm successfully. He wraps the stump of his arm to prevent exsanguination and takes a picture of the boulder. He then rappels down a 65-foot rockface using his other arm and drinks rainwater from a small pond. He meets a family on a day hike, who alert the authorities to Ralston's presence, and a Utah Highway Patrol helicopter, already dispatched, arrives to bring him to a hospital.The epilogue sequence reveals that he got married and started a family; he continues to be a climber and a canyoneer, and he now leaves a note saying where he has gone.