Cop Out is a 2010 American buddy cop action-comedy film directed and edited by Kevin Smith, written by Mark and Robb Cullen and starring Bruce Willis, Tracy Morgan, Kevin Pollak and Seann William Scott. The plot revolves around two veteran NYPD partners (Willis and Morgan) on the trail of a stolen, rare, mint-condition baseball card who find themselves up against a relentless, memorabilia-obsessed bloodthirsty gangster. This is the first film that Smith directed that he did not also write. Upon its release, the film was met with negative reviews by critics and underperformed at the box office. It is nevertheless Kevin Smith's highest grossing film.James "Jimmy" Monroe and Paul Hodges (Bruce Willis and Tracy Morgan) are NYPD detectives. After failing to capture suspect Juan Diaz (Cory Fernandez) and endangering civilians, Jimmy and Paul are suspended without pay. Jimmy's daughter Ava (Michelle Trachtenberg) is getting married, and the cost of the wedding is close to fifty thousand dollars. Though his ex-wife Pam's arrogant second husband Roy (Jason Lee) offers to pay for the wedding, Jimmy is determined to find a way to come up with the money. Meanwhile, Paul is worried that his wife Debbie (Rashida Jones) is cheating on him, so he sets up a hidden camera. While Jimmy is selling a 1952 Andy Pafko baseball card to pay for the wedding, the card shop is robbed by Dave (Seann William Scott), who steals Jimmy's card and Paul's favorite gun. They find out that Dave is going to rob a house that night so they stake out the house to retrieve the card and the gun. Jimmy and Paul arrest Dave, but he has already sold the card and the gun for drugs.Jimmy and Paul go to the drug dealer, Poh Boy (Guillermo Díaz), who tells them they may have the card if they retrieve a stolen car. When they find the car, they discover a woman named Gabriela (Ana de la Reguera) in the trunk. Gabriela reveals that she is the mistress of a drug lord who was kidnapped and murdered by Poh Boy's gang. Jimmy previews the tape from Paul's hidden camera and finds what looks to be Debbie and another man, but he tells Paul there is nothing on it. Paul then sees the tape and is heartbroken when he sees that Jimmy has lied. Gabriela does not want to get Jimmy and Paul hurt, so she flees, leaving them a flashdrive concealed in a crucifix, which contains all the dealer's contacts. Jimmy and Paul bail out Dave so he can retrieve the card and the gun from Poh Boy, but he falls out of a tree and dies. Jimmy breaks into the house to retrieve the card but is surrounded by the gang. At the same time, Paul learns that Debbie played a trick on him for not trusting her. After killing most of the gang, Jimmy and Paul find Poh Boy holding Gabriela at gunpoint. They shoot him dead, but Paul's bullet goes through Jimmy's baseball card, in Poh Boy's shirt pocket. Pleased with the duo's investigation and assisting two colleagues (Adam Brody and Kevin Pollak) who were caught in the shootout, the precinct chief (Sean Cullen) restores Jimmy and Paul to active duty and gives them commendations.Crestfallen at the destruction of his prized card, Jimmy lets Roy pay for the wedding. Pam asks Jimmy and Roy to give away Ava together. Jimmy says nothing about it. Paul discreetly points his pistol at Roy and orders him to sit down at the moment the priest calls out for the father who would give away Ava. A bonus scene during the closing credits reveals that Dave did not die in the fall when he pulls a prank on the coroner opening the body bag by doing one of his knock-knock jokes resulting in her fleeing in horror while Dave exits the body bag in laughter.