Daybreakers is a 2009 Australian-American science fiction horror film written and directed by Michael and Peter Spierig. The film takes place in a futuristic world overrun by vampires. A vampiric corporation sets out to capture and farm the remaining humans while researching a blood substitute. Lead vampire hematologist Edward Dalton's (Ethan Hawke) work is interrupted by human survivors led by former vampire "Elvis" (Willem Dafoe), who has a cure that can save the human species.




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (November 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

It is 2019. A plague in 2009 caused by a mutant vampire bat has transformed most of the world's population into vampires, so that the world is no longer controlled by humans. Vampires do not age or die from natural causes, but are susceptible to sunlight or any ultraviolet light. The vampire world is active at night, and various innovations are made to adapt technology and architecture to their night-based cycle (such as UV-proof cars, underground railways and paths across the cities, and UV warnings).The human population has plummeted, and the need for blood becomes desperate. Vampires deprived of blood for long periods degenerate into "subsiders," psychotic bat-like creatures with no memories whose only thought is the craving for blood. The few remaining humans are captured and harvested in laboratory farms while scientists research a synthetic blood substitute to satisfy vampires' blood hunger world-wide, while animal blood is also widely used.Edward Dalton (Ethan Hawke) is the head hematologist for the pharmaceutical company Bromley Marks, the largest supplier of human blood in the US. He and colleague Christopher Caruso (Vince Colosimo) are developing a blood substitute that can be generated as required. The urgency is underscored when Dalton's boss, company owner Charles Bromley (Sam Neill), reveals that the estimated human population is down to 5%, and national blood supplies will not last more than a month. Edward and Chris carry out a hurried clinical trial of the latest revision on a military volunteer, which spectacularly and gruesomely fails when the individual suffers painful side-effects and explodes.Driving home, Dalton is momentarily distracted when he lights a cigarette and notices that his ears have become pointed (first sign of becoming a subsider), and accidentally runs another vehicle off the road. Checking on the occupants of the other vehicle, he is shot in the arm with a crossbow bolt, and learns they are humans. With police approaching, Dalton has them hide in his vehicle while he lies to the police about where they went. They part ways, but not before their leader, Audrey (Claudia Karvan), learns Edward's name and occupation from the ID badge on his jacket.At home, Edward is surprised by his estranged brother Frankie (Michael Dorman), a soldier who has returned for Edward's 35th birthday (which he celebrates for the tenth time). Frankie's gift of a bottle of pure human blood re-ignites a long-standing argument over Edward's sympathies towards humans, his refusal to drink human blood (he drinks animal blood instead), and his resentment towards Frankie for turning him into a vampire. The argument is cut short when a subsider invades Edward's house, forcing the brothers to team up and kill it. The subsequent police investigation reveals that the subsider was Edward's former local gardener whom Edward had seen only two weeks earlier.The next morning, Audrey visits Edward at his home. She hands him a note with instructions for a meeting, and departs. Dalton drives to the meeting, which is during the day, in his UV-protected Chrysler 300C and waits in the shade of a tree.He is introduced to Lionel "Elvis" Cormac (Willem Dafoe), another human, but is interrupted when a team of military personnel arrives with Frankie, who had followed Edward and intends to capture both Cormac and Audrey. Audrey knocks Frankie unconscious and the three flee from approaching soldiers in Edward's car (since Cormac's has been riddled with bullets). Once they escape, Cormac drives to the edge of a river, where he reveals that he was once a vampire and a professional mechanic, and one of the pioneers in creating UV protection covers for windows and cameras. He was cured when a car crash ejected him from his sun-proof vehicle into the river during daylight hours: Elvis burst into flame in the sunlight, but his life was saved when he landed in the river, having been exposed to the sun for the precise length of time required to turn him human again. Dalton agrees to help Cormac find a way to recreate the cure safely.That night, Edward, Elvis and Audrey arrive at an old vineyard. Edward meets more human survivors, as well as Senator Turner (Jay Laga'aia), a vampire who is secretly helping the colony develop a cure. A convoy of humans heading to Audrey's group is ambushed by vampiric troops and captured. The soldiers find a radio and track the position of the vineyard, forcing Turner and the humans to flee. Audrey, Cormac and Edward stay behind so Edward can be cured. After some experimentation, Edward is able to reverse the vampire effect, curing himself, and feels sunlight for the first time in a decade. They depart in Cormac's 1978 Pontiac Trans Am and attempt to regroup with Turner and the other humans, only to find they are all dead.One of the captured convoy, Alison (Isabel Lucas), wakes up in Charles's office. She is revealed to be his daughter, who had fled after the outbreak of the plague, not accepting her father as a vampire. Charles, wanting his daughter back, has Frankie forcibly turn her. She refuses to drink human blood, feeding on her own instead, and turns into a subsider. She is rounded up with a group of other subsiders in a chain gang and dragged into sunlight to burn to death. Witnessing Alison's death upsets Frankie, causing him to seek out his brother. Meanwhile, Bromley Marks has exhausted its blood reserves and the military imposes martial law to control the subsider population and preserve order.Edward, Cormac and Audrey break into Christopher's home and ask him to help spread the cure. However, Christopher has finally discovered a viable blood substitute and is not interested in a cure, since the substitute will make him rich and powerful. He admits that he always hated being in Edward's shadow and now wants to take his place. He summons soldiers who capture Audrey while Cormac and Edward escape. They are found by Frankie, who agrees to help but is gradually becoming a subsider. He attacks Cormac, but drinking his blood turns Frankie human again: feeding on a cured vampire is another method for vampires to turn back to humans.Edward, trying to save Audrey, turns himself in. Charles reveals that he is not interested in any cure. As a human, he was suffering from incurable cancer, and after becoming a vampire, he turned Bromley Marks into a powerful company. He admits that he likes being immortal and plans to use the substitute world-wide to create a market monopoly, with remaining human blood becoming very expensive, since "there are always those who are willing to pay a little extra for the real thing". Edward taunts Charles for being a coward and having Frankie turn Alison instead of doing it himself. A provoked Charles bites Edward and becomes human again.Edward leaves Charles at the mercy of blood-starved soldiers who are all on the verge of becoming subsiders, and they maul him to death. Edward and Audrey are cornered by the military but rescued when Frankie sacrifices himself, allowing the troops to drink his blood. This sparks a feeding frenzy as most of the military personnel are cured and in turn killed by their vampiric comrades. Christopher arrives, seeking to cover up the cure by executing both Edward and Audrey; however, he is mortally wounded when Cormac shoots him with a crossbow.The three survivors drive off into the sunrise in Cormac's Pontiac, with Edward in a voice-over stating that they have a cure and can change others back. A bat quickly flies at the camera and cuts to black.