Edge of Darkness is a 2010 British-American conspiracy political thriller film directed by Martin Campbell, written by William Monahan and Andrew Bovell, and starring Mel Gibson. It was based on the 1985 BBC television series of the same name, which was likewise directed by Campbell. This was Gibson's first screen lead since Signs (2002), and follows a detective investigating the murder of his activist daughter, while uncovering political conspiracies and cover-ups in the process.At South Station, Boston, police homicide detective Thomas Craven (Mel Gibson) picks up his daughter Emma (Bojana Novakovic), who comes home to visit and vomits while getting into the car. As Craven prepares dinner at home, Emma suffers a nosebleed and vomits again. As the two attempt to go to the hospital, a masked gunman below yells "Craven!", fatally wounds Emma, and escapes.After identifying the body at the medical examiner's office, he takes a sample of Emma's hair as a memento and incidentally discovers that it is radioactive. Then, though everyone assumes Craven was the gunman's target, when he finds Emma had a .45 pistol in her night stand, he starts to suspect that possibly Emma was the intended target. At the police station, he checks the gun's ownership and finds that it belongs to her boyfriend David (Shawn Roberts). David is living in fear of a company called Northmoor, where Emma worked. She discovered that Northmoor, a research and development facility under contract to the U.S. government by Jack Bennett (Danny Huston), was secretly manufacturing nuclear weapons using foreign material and foreign specifications. The weapons were intended to be traced to foreign nations if they were used as dirty bombs.Burning her clothing in his backyard, he encounters Jedburgh (Ray Winstone), a British "consultant" tasked with preventing the disclosure of Emma's information, dealing with Craven however he sees fit. Jedburgh takes a liking to Craven, leaving him to investigate. Craven repeatedly has visions of Emma, even having short conversations and interactions with her, typically as the happy young child he remembers and loves. Craven eventually discovers through one of Emma's friends, an activist who is nearly killed by another of Northmoor's agents. They eventually kill a hitman marked as a fall guy after he is set up for killing Emma.Craven confronts lawyer and Massachusetts U.S. Senator Jim Pine (Damian Young) who was contacted earlier by Emma, revealing that Craven knows almost everything that happened. After examining his fridge with a Geiger counter, Craven discovers that his milk has been contaminated, most likely with the poison used on his daughter. His fellow detective and friend, Bill (Jay O. Sanders), comes to Craven's home while the Northmoor agents break into the house. Craven realizes that Bill set him up before the agents taser and kidnap Craven. He wakes up handcuffed to a gurney in the Northmoor facility, but manages to escape.His health deteriorating rapidly from the poison, Craven heads to Bennett's house and executes the Northmoor agents after forcing one of them at gunpoint to scream the name "Craven," finally identifying him as Emma's killer. Bennett shoots and wounds Craven, but Craven also wounds Bennett, and manages to force some of the radioactive milk, which he has brought with him, down Bennett's throat. Bennett attempts to take some pills to counteract the radioactivity, but Craven shoots him dead.Jedburgh, who is suffering from an unrelated terminal illness, meets with the Senator and two political advisers who had hired Jedburgh to handle Craven. They want to spin the Northmoor incident in a positive light. Jedburgh suggests that an assassination attempt on the Senator could be an angle to drive Bennett's death out of the headlines. They are pleased with this idea until Jedburgh abruptly kills both advisers and the senator. When a young Massachusetts State Police officer nervously enters the Senator's room upon hearing the gunshots, Jedburgh asks the officer at gunpoint if he has children. When the officer replies yes, Jedburgh lowers his gun, allowing the officer to shoot him dead.As Craven lies dying in the hospital from his wounds and radiation poisoning, a young reporter for the local FOX TV station WFXT, who had spoken to Craven a few nights earlier at his home, opens a letter from him which contains DVDs (recorded by Emma) revealing the conspiracy, with Craven's "good luck" wishes, ensuring Northmoor's end. As Craven dies, Emma, in spirit form, comforts him. The father and daughter are shown leaving the hospital together, walking down the corridor and toward a bright, white light.