Furry Vengeance is a 2010 American family black comedy film directed by Roger Kumble, produced by Robert Simonds and Keith Goldberg, written by Michael Carnes and Josh Gilbert, co-produced by Participant Media, Imagenation Abu Dhabi and Robert Simonds Productions with music by Edward Shearmur, and distributed by Summit Entertainment in the United States and Nordisk Film in Denmark.


This article needs an improved plot summary. (November 2015)

In the wilderness of Oregon, a prairie dog screams after Riggs' (Rob Riggle) car passes by and throws a cigar at it. This causes an unnamed raccoon to signal a mink to release a boulder that pushes Riggs' car to the edge of a cliff, teetering back and forth. After that, the raccoon throws the cigar back to Riggs, who yells "you're a bad raccoon!". The raccoon then blows the car down the cliff. Riggs quits Lyman Enterprises.As a result of Riggs' resignation, a real estate developer from Chicago named Dan Sanders (Brendan Fraser) is brought in as his replacement. He is given the task of turning the forest of Rocky Springs into a residential development by Lyman Enterprises CEO Neal Lyman (Ken Jeong). This all transpires much to the objections of Dan's son, Tyler (Matt Prokop). His wife Tammy (Brooke Shields) is unhappy in Rocky Springs, she misses her life in Chicago. Unfortunately for Dan, the animals who are led by the raccoon refuse to sit back and watch their forest to be destroyed.They manage to turn the tables on him by disturbing his progress, interrupting his meetings, and humiliating him. Upon receiving some research from his love interest Amber, Tyler tells his father that Rocky Springs is a forest reserve where he warns his father that "many have tried to conquer it but they all fail." Following an attack by a bear that traps him in a tipped over port-a-potty, Dan signs orders to have a drill sergeant (Billy Bush) capture and cage all the animals.Meanwhile, Tammy is forced to plan an "eco-friendly" fair with a senile teacher Mrs. Martin (Alice Drummond) at the high school which is sponsored by Lyman's company, unaware of Lyman's plans to cut down the forest to build houses and a shopping mall "with a forest theme". Dan, figuring this out, decides to set the animals free. Once released the raccoon and his friends immediately wreak havoc on the eco-fair, causing the guests and entertainers to flee while Mrs. Martin talks to an owl.Lyman accidentally tranquilizes the sponsor for the construction, Mr. Gupta (Gerry Bednob), after he attempted to break their deal. He flees into a worm tunnel with the animals in close pursuit. The animals began attacking him, as a bear drives a golf cart, pulling the tunnel away into a bush. After some convincing from Amber and Tammy, Tyler finally tells his father that he loves him. Three months later, the forest is reclaimed as a nature preserve with Dan working as a park ranger. The poster promoting the forest preservation also states that anyone who violates the rules will be fined $1,000,000.00.During the credits, the humans and animals dance to the Transcenders version of "Insane in the Membrane."