Hubble (also known as Hubble 3D, IMAX: Hubble, or IMAX: Hubble 3D) is a 2010 American documentary film about Space Shuttle missions to repair and upgrade the Hubble Space Telescope.   "Through the power of IMAX 3D, Hubble 3D will enable movie-goers to journey through distant galaxies to explore the grandeur and mysteries of our celestial surroundings, and accompany space-walking astronauts as they attempt the most difficult and important tasks in NASA’s history. The film offers an inspiring and unique look into the Hubble Space Telescope's (HST's) legacy and highlight its profound impact on the way we view the universe and ourselves. Hubble 3D is an IMAX and Warner Bros. Pictures production, in cooperation with National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). The film reunites the Space Station 3D film making team, led by producer/director Toni Myers. Hubble 3D blasted off exclusively to IMAX and IMAX 3D theaters on March 19, 2010." The film's itinerary takes the viewer past Saturn's aurora, the Helix Nebula in the constellation of Aquarius, the "Pillars of Creation" in the Eagle Nebula, the Andromeda galaxy, and the beautiful Butterfly Nebula. The HST has provided data and imagery so detailed that scientists and film technicians have been able to put viewers "inside" the images during two extended CGI fly-throughs. In the most awesome sequence, gaseous clouds billow while million-mile-an-hour stellar winds blow through a cloud canyon in the Orion Nebula some 90 trillion miles across. These data-driven animations were created by the Office of Public Outreach at the Space Telescope Science Institute and the Advanced Visualization Laboratory at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications. Footage seen within the movie was compiled from multiple sources, including IMAX cameras taken into space on Hubble Space Telescope Servicing Missions by the Space Shuttle. This allowed the camera to shoot footage of the satellite close-up and during maintenance. IMAX cameras were taken to the Hubble Space Telescope on STS-61 (Servicing Mission 1 in December 1993) and most recently on STS-125 (Servicing Mission 4 in May 2009) which carried an IMAX 3D camera. The IMAX 3D camera contained a mile of film, though this allowed for only 8 minutes 30 seconds of footage to be recorded. The film has received positive reviews. Review aggregate Rotten Tomatoes reports that 86% of critics have given the film a positive review, based on 37 reviews, giving the film a 'Fresh' rating. The site's consensus reads "Offering a stunning, expansive viewing experience, Hubble 3D takes advantage of IMAX and 3-D technology like no other film."[2] Review aggregate website Metacritic reports a score of 79 out of 100 from 13 critical reviews, indicating 'generally favorable reviews.'[3]