Jack Goes Boating is a 2010 romantic comedy film directed by Philip Seymour Hoffman, and starring Hoffman in the title role, as well as Amy Ryan, John Ortiz, and Daphne Rubin-Vega. The film's script was written by Robert Glaudini, based on his 2007 play Jack Goes Boating.[2] The film's cast was mostly the same as the cast of the play's premiere at The Public Theater, although Amy Ryan replaced Beth Cole. The film was produced by Overture Films and Relativity Media. It premiered at the 26th Sundance Film Festival and was later released in the United States on September 17, 2010.[3] Jack Goes Boating is Hoffman's only work as a director.Jack (Philip Seymour Hoffman) is a shy limousine driver who lives with and works for his uncle. His best friend and co-worker Clyde (John Ortiz) and Clyde's wife Lucy (Daphne Rubin-Vega) set up a dinner date at their house for him to meet Lucy's new co-worker, Connie (Amy Ryan) who has some minor intimacy issues of her own. As Jack and Connie get to know each other, he sets his sights on learning to swim so he can take her boating when summer comes. With Clyde eager to help him learn, they begin swimming lessons. Jack decides that summer is too far away to wait for a date with Connie. He decides that a nice dinner would be a good place to start. When Connie says that no one has ever cooked a meal for her, Jack decides that he wants to be the chef and cook for her. This adds another set of lessons to be learned as Jack does not know how to cook. Clyde sets Jack up with a chef friend of Lucy's to learn the culinary art form. As Jack strives to perfect swimming and cooking, he begins to get a look behind the veil of the marriage of his friends, which is straining under the weight of mutual occasional infidelities. As Jack and Connie grow closer, the troubles of his friends' marriage become more apparent, and Jack grows in confidence and skill not just aquatically and in culinary arts, but in relating to Connie as well. The film's last scene, with Clyde watching Jack and Connie going off happily, suggests that in fact Clyde wanted Connie himself - which would explain why he helped Jack's courting of her but on several occasions also tried to sabotage it.