Jackass 3D (also known as Jackass 3) is a 2010 American 3D adult comedy film and the third film in the Jackass film series. It was directed by Jeff Tremaine which he co-produced with Johnny Knoxville and Spike Jonze and co-wrote with Bam Margera, Chris Pontius, Steve-O, Ryan Dunn, Dave England, Jason "Wee Man" Acuña, Preston Lacy, Ehren McGhehey, and Harrison Stone. The film stars Johnny Knoxville, Bam Margera, Steve-O, Ryan Dunn, Chris Pontius, Preston Lacy, Danger Ehren, Dave England, and "Wee Man".Beavis and Butt-head introduced the film by explaining 3D technology. The opening sequence features the cast lining up and then being attacked by various objects in slow-motion. The opening sequence, as well as many of the stunts, were filmed with Phantom high speed cameras which shoot at 1,000 frames per second.Jackass 3D follows the same premise as the past movies and the television series. It is a compilation of various pranks, stunts and skits, and has no plot. Some of the stunts featured included tether ball being played with a beehive filled with Africanized bees, one of Ehren McGhehey's teeth being pulled out with a Lamborghini Murciélago, using super mighty glue to take off chest hair and much more. The final stunt includes Steve-O being launched in the air while inside a portable toilet (which was achieved by connecting the port-a-potty to bungee cords) filled with excrement.The closing skit is done in a similar fashion as the introduction, but uses explosions as objects are thrown at the cast to the tune of Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture. After the explosions are finished, the cast members are flushed away by a wave pool. As in the past two Jackass films, comedian Rip Taylor makes an appearance before the credits roll, celebrating the end of the film in overly dramatic fashion. As the ending credits play, a retrospective is shown with clips from the original show along with old photographs of cast and crew set to Weezer's "Memories", the film's single. Knoxville's daughter, Madison, is also seen in the ending credits, joining in on the prank fun.