The Last Exorcism is a 2010 American found footage supernatural horror film directed and edited by Daniel Stamm. It stars Patrick Fabian, Ashley Bell, Iris Bahr, and Louis Herthum.[4]Reverend Cotton Marcus (Patrick Fabian) lives in Baton Rouge, Louisiana with his wife and son. Marcus, who lost his faith after the birth of his ill son, is accustomed to performing fake exorcisms on "possessed" individuals. He chooses an exorcism request sent by farmer Louis Sweetzer (Louis Herthum), who claims his livestock are being slaughtered by his daughter Nell (Ashley Bell), who is possessed.Marcus claims Nell is possessed by a powerful demon named Abalam. He bamboozles the family into believing he is driving out a demon and leaves, believing he and his crew have cured her of a mental state that was misdiagnosed as possession. That night, Nell appears in Marcus' motel room, apparently unwell. Marcus takes Nell to the hospital for tests, which conclude that she is in perfect physical condition. Marcus goes to see Louis' former pastor, Joseph Manley. Manley informs Marcus that he has not seen Nell for two years. In the morning, Louis takes Nell home, but chains her to the bed after she slices her brother Caleb's (Caleb Landry Jones) face with a knife.Nell steals their camera and goes into her father's barn, where she brutally smashes a cat to death. The crew, Iris and Daniel, discover her morbid paintings. They depict Marcus standing before a large flame with a crucifix, Iris cut into pieces, and Daniel decapitated. When everyone learns Nell is pregnant, Marcus accuses Louis of incest. Louis insists that Nell is a virgin and has been defiled by the demon. The crew wants to leave; Nell attacks Marcus, and Louis threatens to kill her with his shotgun. Nell begs him to kill her but to keep Louis from doing so, Marcus offers to attempt a second exorcism.Marcus confronts the entity, Abalam, who agrees to release Nell only if Marcus can remain silent for ten seconds. Abalam begins breaking Nell's fingers one by one. After breaking three of her fingers, Marcus yells for Abalam to stop. Abalam asks Marcus if he wants a "blowing job." Marcus realizes that a demon would know the actual name of the sex act and concludes that Nell is not a demon, but a very disturbed girl. Nell anguishes over losing her virginity to a boy named Logan. Marcus and the crew meet Logan, who explains that the only contact he had with Nell was a brief conversation 6 months ago. Logan also admits he is gay. Marcus realizes that Pastor Manley was lying about having not seen Nell for two years. He returns to the Sweetzer farmhouse, where they find numerous occult and countercultural symbols on the walls, and Nell and Louis missing.Marcus and the crew wander into the woods, where they see a large fire and a congregation of hooded cultists, led by Pastor Manley. Louis is tied up, gagged and blindfolded while hooded figures pray around an altar, atop which Nell is bound. She gives birth to an inhuman child. Manley throws the child into the fire, which causes the fire to grow rapidly as demonic roars emanate. At that moment, Marcus' faith is restored, and he grabs his cross and rushes towards the fire to combat the evil. Iris is tackled by a member of the congregation and killed with an axe. Caleb decapitates Daniel and the camera falls.