Let Me In is a 2010 American-British romantic horror film[6] written and directed by Matt Reeves and starring Kodi Smit-McPhee, Chloë Grace Moretz, Elias Koteas, and Richard Jenkins. It is a remake of the 2008 Swedish film Let the Right One In (2008).[7] It tells the story of a bullied 12-year-old boy who develops a friendship with a female vampire child in Los Alamos, New Mexico in the early 1980s.In March 1983, in Los Alamos, New Mexico, a disfigured man is taken to the hospital. An unnamed police detective tries to question him about a recent murder. The detective is called to a phone and told that the man's daughter was just downstairs. While he is on the phone, the man jumps out of the window, leaving behind a scrawled note that reads "I'm sorry Abby."Two weeks earlier, Owen, an unhappy and lonely 12-year-old boy who is neglected by his divorcing parents, sees a young girl named Abby and an older man, Thomas, moving in next door and notices that she is barefoot despite the snow. Owen meets Abby one night and asks if she is cold upon seeing no footwear on her feet. Abby states that she doesn't get cold. Owen and Abby become close friends and start communicating by Morse code through the walls of their apartments. At school, a teenage bully named Kenny and two of his friends, Donald and Mark, constantly terrorize Owen, who lies to his mother about it but tells Abby the truth. Abby encourages him to retaliate.Thomas abducts a woman after breaking into her car while she is inside a grocery store shopping. He awaits in the backseat with a homemade suit on that covers his face & upper body from getting blood on his clothes presumably. It seems to have been made with black garbage bags. Once the unknown woman enters the car with her groceries & drives away, only to be stopped at a train crossing near by. It's at this point that Thomas attacks her & renders her unconscious with chloroform. The scene jumps to Thomas pulling on a rope that is rigged to a tree and the woman. She is suspended in air, upside-down and unconscious with the rope tied around her ankles. Thomas then punctures her carotid artery with a knife and collects the blood using a funnel and an empty gallon sized plastic bottle, but accidentally spills it, losing almost all of the freshly collected blood. Hungry, Abby attacks a concerned neighbor named Jack to drink his blood, revealing that she is a vampire. On another night, Thomas hides in the back of a teenager's car, murders the passenger, and tries to flee, but crashes the car and becomes trapped inside. He pours concentrated sulfuric acid on his face, disfiguring himself to prevent his identification. He is taken to the hospital, bringing the story back to the first scene.Abby learns what happened and climbs up the hospital building to see Thomas after speaking to the front desk worker who noticed that Abby is barefoot upon departure and couldn't find her afterwards. She knocks on the window and he points to his throat, unable to speak, and leans out of the window; Abby drinks his blood. Thomas passes out and falls to his death. That night, Owen is awakened by Abby who insists he verbally invite her in. She spends the night in his bed upon discarding her clothes and agrees to be his girlfriend. The next day, Owen's class goes ice-skating on a frozen river. When Kenny and his friends threaten to throw Owen into a hole in the ice, Owen, emboldened by his relationship with Abby, hits Kenny with a metal pole, splitting his left ear and causing him to scream in pain. At the same moment, the students spot a body encased in the ice, revealed to be that of Jack, whom Thomas disposed of into the (then unfrozen) river.Later, Owen sees Abby and, hoping to make a blood pact with her, cuts his finger. Unable to control herself, Abby laps up a drop of Owen's blood revealing her vampire form. Not wanting to hurt Owen, she flees and instead attacks a woman named Virginia upon jumping out of a tree. Virginia's boyfriend Larry witnesses the attack and calls an ambulance upon chasing her off. The next night, Abby admits to Owen that she is a vampire and that Thomas was not her father. Owen discovers an aged photo of her with Thomas as a young boy. As Thomas continued to age, he posed as Abby's father while she did not physically age past twelve.In the hospital the next morning, a nurse goes into Virginia's unit to open the curtains and finds Virginia feasting on her own bloody wrists. She has been turned into a vampire most likely as a result of Abby attacking her the night before and drinking some of her blood. It can then be implied by the viewer that Virginia turned vampire as a direct result of Abby biting her, but failing to kill her by snapping her neck as we have seen her do previously in the movie after attacking a man in a tunnel, drinking his blood and finally breaking his neck to kill him and prevent him from becoming vampire. This is the same man we see Thomas dispose of in the river earlier in the movie after Abby killed him. Back at the hospital as sunlight enters the room, Virginia bursts into flames that quickly spread throughout the unit, killing them both and setting the entire floor on fire.Owen sneaks out to spend the night at Abby's. The next morning, the detective forces his way into Abby's apartment and finds her asleep. He begins to uncover a window but is distracted by Owen. Abby wakes and attacks the detective to feed on his blood. The dying detective appeals to Owen for help, but Owen does not intervene. Abby tells Owen she will have to leave town. They share a kiss and he watches tearfully as she enters a taxi and leaves.During Owen's swim class, Kenny, his sadistic older brother Jimmy, and their friends, are seeking revenge for the injury Owen had inflicted to Kenny's ear. They ambush Owen and throw him into the pool. Jimmy tells Owen that he will only cut his cheek if he can hold his breath underwater for three minutes or otherwise poke out one of his eyes if he fails before forcing him underwater. After one minute, Kenny and his friends realize this is excessive and tell Jimmy to stop, but he angrily refuses. An unseen assailant breaks through the skylight, attacking the bullies, and Owen sees torn-off limbs sinking into the pool all around him. Owen emerges from the pool to catch his breath and then sees a pair of familiar bare feet come near him. He then looks up, faintly smiling to see an off-screen Abby.Owen leaves town in broad daylight on a train, traveling with a large trunk with Abby inside. From inside, a message in Morse code is tapped out. Owen taps out a response and then looks out the window, quietly singing to himself "Eat some now, save some for later," the jingle of Now and Later candy, which Abby and Owen had shared in an earlier scene.