Mirrors 2 is a 2010 American horror film. It is a sequel to the 2008 film Mirrors. Released by 20th Century Fox in direct-to-video format, the film is written by Matt Venne and is directed by Víctor García. It is available on DVD and Blu-ray Disc.[2]Max Matheson (Nick Stahl) is involved in a car accident, that kills his fiancée, Kayla (Jennifer Sipes). Due to the accident, he becomes emotionally disturbed and undergoes psychological treatment with Dr. Beaumont (Ann Mckenzie), making some progress in dealing with the guilt over the accident. To help Max move forward, his father, Jack Matheson (William Katt), reopens the Mayflower Department Store in New Orleans and invites Max to replace the security guard, who recently quit under mysterious circumstances while apparently "cutting himself up" on duty.Max accepts the job and his father introduces him to the store manager, Keller Landreaux (Lawrence Turner), the buyer, Jenna McCarty (Christy Carlson Romano), and the vice-president of operations, Ryan Parker (Jon Michael Davis). Before his first shift, Max sees a vision of a dead woman in a mirror, and then sees Jenna's reflection, ripping off her head. Meanwhile, Jenna is killed by her reflection, being thrown through glass doors and a shard of glass decapitating her. Max realizes that he foresees the deaths in the mirrors. That night, he tries to find the ghost, but instead sees Ryan's reflection being eviscerated. He tries to contact Ryan, but gets no response. Later, Ryan is killed, in the same way as his reflection.Max sees his father's face covered in cuts in a puddle then races to his father's house. Jack is almost killed by his reflection, after Max made it to his house and hints to whoever is manipulating the mirrors that he would do whatever she wants him to do if she spares his father. Max later returns to the Mayflower, but he is stopped by Detectives Huston and Piccirilli (Lance E. Nichols, Wayne Pére), explaining what happened in Ryan and Jenna's deaths. Max denies any involvement and, though they remain suspicious, they let Max get back to his work.Max goes to the main mirror, to find out who the ghost is. Suddenly, Max's reflection shows a light, which Max follows in each of the mirrors. He finds a box and opens it to find an ID of a woman named Eleanor Reigns (Stephanie Honoré Sanchez), a new employee of the Mayflower who disappeared two months ago. The light shines outside and Max finds a missing person flier for Eleanor. Max reads it as he contacts Eleanor's older sister Elizabeth (Emmanuelle Vaugier) to learn details of her disappearance. Together, they discover that someone had deleted the surveillance files on the night of Eleanor's disappearance in the store's computer.Max and Elizabeth visit Henry Schow (Evan Jones), the store's former security guard and the last person who accessed the files. Henry's mouth had been scarred by his reflection. Through Henry, they learn that Eleanor is dead and her spirit is seeking revenge on whoever was involved in her murder.Two months prior, during the Mayflower's grand opening party, Jenna and Ryan spiked Eleanor's drink with drugs. Keller raped Eleanor while she was intoxicated and was directly responsible for her death. Henry found Keller burying Eleanor's body in the Mayflower's basement crawlspace and is ordered to delete the surveillance files to cover up the crime.Two days after her death, Eleanor, whose soul is trapped in the mirror world, began stalking them. She began to mutilate Henry by manipulating his reflection to eat shards of glass after he erased the files, and eventually killed Jenna and Ryan, before moving on to Keller. When Eleanor realized that Max could see her, she forced him to help her make contact with her sister by threatening his father's life. Max realizes that his near-death experience from the car accident has given him an ability to see the other side.Max and Elizabeth go to the Mayflower and search for Eleanor's body in the basement. They are chased by Keller, after he realizes that they know what happened. He nearly strangles Elizabeth, but Max saves her, thus recreating the near-death encounter Max had experienced and allowing Elizabeth to see Eleanor. After seeing Eleanor again, Max wrestles Keller, pushing him into the main mirror. Eleanor kills Keller, saving Max and Elizabeth, but leaving them in shock.At the police station, Henry confesses to the detectives of his unintentional involvement in Eleanor's murder. The police interrogation room's one-way mirror starts to crack after Henry is alone, and he sees Eleanor again on its reflection. Henry's scream is heard after the screen cuts to black.