Rabbit Hole is a 2010 American drama film starring Nicole Kidman, Aaron Eckhart, and Dianne Wiest, and directed by John Cameron Mitchell; the screenplay is an adaptation by David Lindsay-Abaire of his 2005 play of the same name. Kidman produced the project via her company, Blossom Films. The film premiered at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival in September 2010. Lionsgate distributed the film.[5] The plot deals with a couple struggling to heal after the death of their young son. Kidman was critically acclaimed for her performance as Becca Corbett and received Academy Award, Golden Globe Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award nominations for Best Actress. It received a limited release in the United States on December 17, 2010 and expanded nationwide on January 14, 2011.[6]Becca and Howie Corbett's four-year-old son Danny is killed in a car accident after he runs out into the street after his dog. Becca wants to give away Danny's clothes, remove Danny's things, and sell their house, but Howie is angry at Becca's elimination of anything that reminds them of their child. Howie also wants to have another child with Becca, but she refuses.Becca's mother, Nat, has also lost a child—Becca's brother, who died of a drug overdose. Becca states the two deaths are not comparable but eventually realizes their grief is the same in that it will never stop. Becca's sister, Izzy, is pregnant, and Becca keeps giving Izzy advice about becoming a mother, which Izzy resents.Becca and Howie attend a self-help group, but Becca is irritated by some members of the group, particularly by one couple who attribute their child's death to God's will. Howie continues to attend the meetings without Becca and he and long-time member Gabby start smoking pot in her car before the meetings. They almost begin an affair. However, Howie backs out of it stating he is in love with his wife.Meanwhile, Becca starts meeting with Jason, the teenaged driver of the car that hit Danny. She discovers he feels guilty and tells him she does not blame him for the accident. Jason tells her about a comic book he is writing called "Rabbit Hole", which is about parallel universes. He brings the book to her at home and as he gives it to Becca, Howie realises who he is and that Becca has been meeting him in secret. Howie is distressed at this revelation and demands that Jason leave immediately. Jason complies but is distraught by Howie's reaction.Howie and Becca begin to have new activities, such as bowling and playing games and they start to accept their son's death.Howie and Becca decide to have a garden lunch. The scene begins with Howie telling Becca how the lunch would take place, while simultaneously the screen fades into the lunch as Howie continues to speak in the background. The film ends with Becca and Howie sitting in their garden alone after all their guests have left staring into space. Becca reaches out to Howie and touches his hand. They hold hands affectionately as they continue to sit and stare into space.