Step Up 3D (also known as Step Up 3) is a 2010 American 3D dance film written by Amy Andelson and Emily Meyer and directed by Step Up 2: The Streets's Jon M. Chu. The sequel sees the return of Adam Sevani and Alyson Stoner, who portrayed Moose from Step Up 2: The Streets and Camille Gage from Step Up. As the third installment in the Step Up series and the first shot in 3D, the film follows Moose and Camille Gage as they head to New York University, the former dancer of whom is majoring in electrical engineering after promising his father that he would not dance anymore. However, he soon stumbles upon a dance battle, meeting Luke Katcher and his House of Pirates dance crew and later teaming up with them to compete in the World Jam dance contest against their rival, the House of Samurai dance crew.In New York City, Moose and Camille attend the New York University. Moose is majoring in electrical engineering after promising his father that he would not dance anymore. While touring the campus, he sees a pair of Limited Edition Gun Metal Nike Dunks worn by Luke Katcher. Moose follows the shoes and then stumbles upon a dance battle, where he beats Kid Darkness from the dancing crew House of Samurai. Luke takes him back to his place, an old warehouse converted into a club. Luke shows Moose his dance crew, the House of Pirates, whom he later teams up with to compete in the World Jam dance contest. Jacob informs Luke the warehouse will be put up for auction if the overdue rents are not paid.Luke meets Natalie at the club and notices her dancing abilities, enlisting her to become part of his crew, but is unaware of Natalie's motives. Moose has to choose between his studies and dance, between a test and a dance competition. He goes to test, but seeing the paper and receiving a message from Luke, he rushes to the competition just in time.Luke and Natalie become close as the movie progresses. Luke explains his true intentions with his recordings and dance interviews. Natalie is hiding the fact that her brother is Julien, the leader of the House of Samurai, and lies about everything but the love connection between her and Luke.Natalie faces a hard decision between her love and her family. She confronts Luke and asks what happened with him and Julien. He says that Julien was a member of the House of Pirates, but has a gambling problem and he once wagered against the Pirates and threw the battle, so the Pirates kicked him out. After arguing with Julien, she decides to leave Luke. Julien uses her phone to invite Luke for her birthday party. Luke asks Moose to attend the party with him, but because they have no invitation, they are not permitted to enter. They find a way to get in and Luke and Natalie dance a tango. Julien reveals Natalie's identity and Luke is angry with Natalie. When Luke arrives back at the warehouse, he finds it is foreclosed. Angry at himself for not being a better leader, he exclaims that the House of Pirates is over, and the crew members go their separate ways. Moose and Camille are best friends, but Moose does not see that Camille is in love with him. The two fall out after Moose shows up late to a party.Moose and Camille make up the streets by dancing to a remix of Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers. Camille tells Moose that he can never give up dancing as he was born to do it. Moose helps out Luke by bringing the House of Pirates back together, and giving him additional members for his crew including Camille and The MSA Crew from Step Up 2: The Streets. They discover that the former members are now performing with the House of Samurai. They also find out Julien is buying their warehouse, but says if they throw the battle, they can have it back, but they do not take the offer.Natalie helps Luke and the Pirates win the World Jam with the routine they had practiced. She invites him to come with her to California, which he does by meeting her at the train station and kissing her just as Moose kisses Camille. Before leaving, Luke gives Moose the pair of Limited Edition Gun Metal Nike Dunks and is in charge of the group.