Battle: Los Angeles (also known as Battle: LA and internationally as World Invasion: Battle Los Angeles) is a 2011 American military science fiction war film directed by Jonathan Liebesman. The storyline was conceived from a screenplay written by Chris Bertolini, based in part on a wartime incident dubbed the "Battle of Los Angeles".[4] The film is set in modern-day Los Angeles and follows a retiring Marine Staff Sergeant played by Aaron Eckhart who must go back into the line of duty to lead a platoon of U.S. Marines, a U.S. Navy corpsman, isolated U.S. Army soldiers and a U.S. Air Force sergeant during a global alien invasion. The ensemble cast also features Michelle Rodriguez, Ramon Rodriguez, Bridget Moynahan, Ne-Yo, and Michael Peña.On August 12, 2011, large masses thought to be meteors land in the oceans near major coastal cities. The objects are discovered to be spacecraft containing hostile extraterrestrial life. As Los Angeles is being evacuated, Marines from Camp Pendleton arrive, including Staff Sergeant Michael Nantz, an Iraq War veteran. Nantz was to begin retirement, but because of the attack, he is made the acting platoon sergeant for 1st Platoon, Echo Company, of the 2nd Battalion 5th Marines.[5]Under the command of 2nd Lieutenant William Martinez, the platoon arrives at Santa Monica Airport, now a Forward Operating Base. The alien ground forces have no apparent air support, so the Air Force prepares to carpet bomb the Santa Monica area, and the platoon is tasked with rescuing civilians from an LAPD station in West Los Angeles before the bombing in three hours. As they advance through LA, they are ambushed and suffer multiple casualties. Nantz takes two survivors, Imlay and Harris, to look for Lenihan, who is missing from the group after having been wounded. After fighting off an alien, they regroup and team up with a group of Army National Guard soldiers from the 40th Infantry Division, and an Air Force intelligence Tech. Sergeant, Elena Santos. At the police station, the platoon finds five civilians: veterinarian Michele, children Hector Rincon, Kirsten, Amy, and Hector's father Joe. A helicopter soon arrives to evacuate the wounded Marines, but fails to take civilians because of weight restrictions. During takeoff, it is destroyed by alien air forces, killing Grayston, Guerrero, Lenihan and Simmons.[5]The Marines commandeer an abandoned town bus for evacuation. They also vivisect a wounded extraterrestrial with the help of Santos and find a vulnerable spot in its abdomen, and realize that the UFO aircraft are drones which track down victims using their radio transmissions. Santos reveals that her mission was to locate the aliens' central command center, believing that its destruction would deactivate the drones. On the I-10 freeway, their bus comes under attack, as well as finding the freeway's off-ramp destroyed. The Marines release their civilians from the freeway is by rappelling them. In the ensuing battle, Marines Stavrou and Mottola and the National Guard members are killed, while both Joe (who grabs a rifle and attacks one of the aliens) and Lieutenant Martinez are wounded. Martinez detonates explosives inside the bus, sacrificing himself to kill the aliens, leaving Nantz in command. The surviving troopers Nantz, Santos, Imlay, Kerns, Lockett, Harris, Adukwu and the civilians escape the bombing zone. A news report speculates that the aliens are seeking Earth's water for fuel while attempting to colonize the planet and eradicate humans. The team prepares for the bombing, but nothing happens. Returning to the FOB, the Marines find it destroyed and that the military is retreating from LA. The Marines plan to escort the civilians to an alternate extraction point. Joe finally dies from his wounds, and Nantz comforts Joe's son. Lockett confronts Nantz over his brother, Cpl Dwayne G. Lockett and the others who were killed in Nantz's last tour. They come to peace when Nantz explains that he continues to think of them, and recites each person's name, rank and serial number. Nantz then says that the surviving Marines deserve to move forward united to honor their fallen comrades, including Joe for his bravery. They reach the extraction point and evacuate by helicopter.[5]In mid-air, the chopper experiences a brief loss of power. Nantz theorizes that they are hovering over a location occupied by the alien command center as it relays radio energy to its drones. He decides to recon the area alone, but his team insists on accompanying him. Searching underground, the Marines confirm the presence of a large alien vessel. Kerns radios in to request for missiles, which Nantz manually directs using a laser designator while the others defend his position. Despite Kerns being killed when a Drone spots his signals, the Marines succeed in routing a missile to the command module, which is destroyed. The alien ground forces retreat as their uncontrolled drones crash. At a Temporary Operating Base in the Mojave Desert, Nantz, Imlay, Lockett, Harris, and Adukwu, the survivors of the original platoon along with Santos, are greeted as heroes. Despite orders to rest, they re-arm themselves and join the rest of the Marines in retaking Los Angeles as other countries wage similar military operations against the hostile species.[5]