Bucky Larson: Born to Be a Star is a 2011 American comedy film produced by Happy Madison Productions and distributed by Columbia Pictures. Adam Sandler, Allen Covert, and Nick Swardson (as the film's lead actor) co-wrote the script and Tom Brady directed. It was released on September 9, 2011. It was a disastrous box office bomb and was overwhelmingly panned by film critics, earning a 0% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. It was nominated for six Razzies, including the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Picture, but lost to the film Jack and Jill, another film from Happy Madison Productions.A small-town manchild with big buck-teeth, Bucky Larson (Nick Swardson), stumbles upon a family secret: His quiet and reserved parents (Edward Herrmann and Miriam Flynn) were famous porn stars in the 1970s. This motivates him to leave northern Iowa for Hollywood, hoping to follow in their footsteps and fulfill his destiny as the biggest adult-film star in the world. Unfortunately, he has no idea how to become a porn star like his parents, and his penis is incredibly small.Through a series of misunderstandings, he gets a job as a porn actor with fading director Miles Deep (Don Johnson). He makes several films, and achieves a certain fame when his small penis makes women appreciate their partner's endowment. Along the way he meets and falls in love with Kathy (Christina Ricci), a kindhearted waitress. After becoming incredibly famous, Bucky learns he just wants to be with Kathy; she rejects him without explanation, however, leaving him brokenhearted. During a film shoot, Miles confesses that he had told Kathy to leave Bucky so he could have his prize star all to himself. Bucky forgives Miles and goes after Kathy, who is on a horrible date with another porn star, the well-endowed Dick Shadow (Stephen Dorff). Bucky declares his love, and the two get married. After one year, Bucky opens his own famous steakhouse. One night, his former roommate (Kevin Nealon) comes into the restaurant and yells at him for owing him rent money, and tells Bucky he is "just like John Mayer".