Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Rodrick Rules (sometimes known as Diary of a Wimpy Kid 2: Rodrick Rules) is a 2011 American comedy film[3] based on Jeff Kinney's book of the same name with a couple elements from The Last Straw. The film stars Zachary Gordon and Devon Bostick. Robert Capron, Rachael Harris, Steve Zahn, and Peyton List also have prominent roles. The film was released on March 25, 2011 by 20th Century Fox. The film received mixed reviews from critics and it earned $72.4 million on a $21 million budget. It is the second film in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid film series preceded by 2010's Diary of a Wimpy Kid and followed by 2012's Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days.The Heffley family attends a party at a roller rink, where Greg Heffley reunites with his best friend Rowley Jefferson, meets a new girl at school named Holly Hills who Greg instantly has a crush on, and reveals he passed on the Cheese Touch. During the party, his older brother Rodrick embarrasses Greg by suggesting that he ask Holly to skate with him and then persuading violent teenagers to enter the rink, prompting Greg's parents (who misunderstand this) to speak to Greg on the rink's public address system and then carry him off the rink. Greg, extremely angry with Rodrick, tries to tackle him, but he misses and in turn, lands in Taylor Pringle's birthday cake. She and her friends then proceed to beat up Greg as the intro starts.Rodrick and Greg's mother, Susan Heffley, makes an effort to have them bond by going in their bedroom and doing some things together by using her methods called "Mom Bucks", but it makes things worse as Rodrick cheats her system. One day, a school talent show is advertised on TV; in which Rowley sees it as an opportunity to perform magic, and Rodrick sees it as the band's big break. However, Greg rejects the idea of doing the magic.At church, Greg and Rodrick are grounded after a scuffle, causing Susan to get upset about what others think of her, and her family's reputation being ruined; after which, they are forbidden to go to the water park, nor inviting people over, and told that they must bond. However, Rodrick does the opposite, and throws a party. Though, this party causes Rodrick to be more friendly and open towards Greg.The next morning, Susan calls and says that they will be home in one hour. Rodrick and Greg hastily erase all the evidence, but find out that the bathroom door is painted on with a graffiti; therefore, they replace the door, but Greg finds out that the replacement door doesn't have a lock like the last door. Rodrick convinces Greg to deny everything as their parents arrive. Susan however, later slowly began to discovers the difference and questions Greg, in which he nearly reveals the truth. Convinced that Greg didn't reveal about the party, Rodrick starts bonding with him as a gesture of gratitude.One night, they are finally exposed when their father Frank Heffley comes across photos of the party and the Heffley's reputation is ruined again, and no one will support Susan's articles about siblings bonding. Greg and Rodrick both get grounded, which includes Rodrick not being allowed to participate in the school talent show. Their punishment is to stay at the retirement home with their Grandpa is staying, in which Greg finds out that Holly is visiting her grandmother. Holly tells Greg that she can relate to Greg about siblings giving her a hard time; however, siblings will eventually get over it. Holly also reveals she is more patient and mature than her siblings.The next day, to humiliate Greg, Rodrick reads and steals Greg's diary — in which Greg has written about his crush on Holly — and attempts to hand it over to Holly. Greg, with only his underwear on, chases after Rodrick and takes the diary back, but inadvertently hides in the women's restroom and when Greg returns, Rodrick reveals to Greg that he tapes the whole incident.At the talent show a few nights later, Rodrick finds out that he has been booted from the band by Bill Walter, a band member who recently joined; Rowley isn't able to perform his magic tricks due to his partner having stage fright. Greg, with a change of heart, helps Rowley and Rodrick out by participating in Rowley's magic act in return for allowing Rodrick to perform his band act. The magic act is praised by Holly and the crowd, but people are unimpressed by Rodrick's music act until Susan starts dancing, then the crowd joins in. Frank tapes the entire footage of Susan dancing, agreeing with Greg to keep it a secret. Rodrick kicks Bill out of the band, and he gives Greg the tape from the retirement home in return for making it possible for him to participate.