Drive is a 2011 American neo-noir crime film directed by Danish filmmaker Nicolas Winding Refn. The screenplay by Hossein Amini was based on the eponymous 2005 novel by James Sallis. The film stars Ryan Gosling as an unnamed Hollywood stunt driver moonlighting as a getaway driver. He suddenly grows fond of his neighbor, Irene (Carey Mulligan) and her young son, Benicio, until her debt-laden husband, Standard (Oscar Isaac), is released from prison and hires him to take part in what turns out to be a botched million-dollar heist that endangers their lives. Other members of the ensemble cast include Bryan Cranston, Christina Hendricks, Ron Perlman, and Albert Brooks.The unnamed Driver works as a mechanic, a stunt double, and a stunt driver, as well as a criminal-for-hire getaway driver. He is managed in all jobs by auto shop owner Shannon, who persuades Jewish mobsters Bernie Rose and Nino to purchase a car for the Driver to race. The Driver meets his new neighbor, Irene, and becomes close to her and her young son, Benicio. Irene's husband, Standard Gabriel, is in prison. After Standard is released, Irene still asks the Driver to visit them.Standard owes protection money from his time in prison and is beaten up by Albanian gangster Cook, who demands that Standard rob a pawnshop for $40,000 to pay off the debt. Cook gives Benicio a bullet as a symbol that he and his mother are in danger. The Driver, concerned for the safety of Irene and Benicio, offers to act as the getaway driver for the pawnshop robbery.The job goes awry when Standard is shot and killed by the pawnshop owner while the Driver is waiting for him with Cook's accomplice, Blanche. The Driver and Blanche escape after an intense car chase with a mysterious adversary. The Driver hides with Blanche in a motel where he learns from a news report that Standard, as told by the pawnshop owner, performed the robbery by himself and that no money had been stolen. When she lies about being oblivious about the second car during interrogation, the Driver slaps Blanche and threatens to hurt her to get her to talk. Blanche then admits that the bag contains a million dollars and that she and Cook planned to re-steal the money with the car that chased them. Two of Cook's men ambush them in the motel room, killing Blanche before the Driver manages to kill them both.At the auto shop, Shannon offers to hide the money, but the Driver refuses. He hunts down Cook in a strip club, smashes his fingers with a hammer, threatens to kill him, and force-feeds him the bullet that was given to Benicio. Cook reveals that Nino was behind the robbery. The Driver decides to return the money, but Nino dismisses the offer and instead sends a hitman to the Driver's apartment building. Entering the elevator with Irene, the Driver encounters the hitman. He then kisses Irene and brutally beats the hitman to death. Afterwards, Irene exits the elevator stunned and horrified.At his pizzeria, Nino reveals to Bernie that the money was stashed at the pawnshop by a low-level Philadelphia wise guy from the "East Coast mob" and, since anyone tied to the robbery could lead the East Coast Mafia to them, they need to kill everyone involved. Bernie warns Nino that nobody steals from the Italian Mob. Nino is angry because the Italian Mob has marginalized and insulted him due to his Jewish heritage. He convinces Bernie to follow his plan. Bernie then murders Cook, as he is the sole witness to their agreement. After Shannon refuses to divulge the whereabouts of the Driver, Bernie kills him at the auto shop with a straight razor.The Driver, disguising himself with a rubber mask from his stuntman job, follows Nino from the pizzeria to the Pacific Coast Highway and T-bones Nino's car onto a beach, then chases him from the wreck to the ocean and drowns him. He makes a phone call to Irene to tell her he is leaving and that meeting her and Benicio was the best thing that ever happened to him. The Driver goes to meet Bernie, who promises that Irene will be safe in exchange for the money. The Driver gives Bernie the money, but Bernie attempts to kill him, stabbing him in the stomach. The Driver in turn fatally stabs Bernie, then drives away, abandoning the money. Irene knocks at the Driver's apartment, but gets no response. The Driver drives away into the night.