Footloose is a 2011 American musical dance film directed by Craig Brewer. It is a remake of the 1984 film of the same name and stars Kenny Wormald, Julianne Hough, Andie MacDowell, and Dennis Quaid. The film follows a young man who moves from Boston to a small southern town and protests the town's ban against dancing.After a long night of partying, Bobby Moore and four of his friends become drunk and drive over a bridge and crash into a truck, killing all five. Bobby's father Shaw Moore, the Reverend of the Bomont, Georgia church, persuades the city council to pass several draconian laws, including a ban on all unsupervised dancing within the city limits (based, in part, on New York City's Cabaret Laws).Three years later, Ren McCormack, a Boston-raised teenager, moves to Bomont to live with his uncle, aunt, and cousins after his mother's death from leukemia and his father's abandonment. Soon after arriving, Ren befriends Willard Hewitt, a fellow senior at Bomont High, and from him learns about the ban on dancing.He soon begins to be attracted to Moore's rebellious daughter - Bobby's sister Ariel - who is dating dirt-track driver Chuck Cranston. After an insult from Chuck, Ren ends up in a game involving buses, and wins despite his inability to drive one. Reverend Moore distrusts Ren and forbids Ariel from ever seeing him again. Ren and his classmates want to do away with the law and have a senior prom. After a while Ariel begins to fall for Ren and dumps Chuck, and Chuck beats her up. Moore asks if Ren beat up Ariel. When Moore demands Ren's arrest, Ariel tells him that he can't blame everything on Ren just like he did with Bobby. She then reveals that she is no longer a virgin, which prompts Moore to beg for her to not talk like that in church, having Ariel sarcastically ask Moore if he will pass another law, and how it didn't stop her and Chuck from having sex. But Moore slaps her without warning, which shocks Vi, Moore's wife, and prompts Ariel to tearfully and angrily criticize Moore for slapping her, and storm out of the church. Moore tries to apologize, but Vi stops Moore, telling him, "You've done enough." Vi is supportive of the dancing movement, explaining to Moore he cannot be everyone's father, and that he is hardly being good to Ariel. She also says that dancing and music are not the problem.Ren goes before the city council and reads several Bible verses given to him by Ariel, that describe how in ancient times people would dance to rejoice, exercise, celebrate, and/or worship. Ren also teaches Willard how to dance. The city council votes against him. Undaunted, Ren convinces the cotton mill owner to let them have a prom there; the mill is just outside city limits. Ren goes to see Moore, knowing that Moore still has enough influence to pressure the parents not to let their teenagers come. Ren tells Moore that even though they denied the motion to dismiss the law, they cannot stop the dance. He then asks him respectfully if he can take Ariel.On Sunday, Shaw asks his congregation to pray for the high school students putting on the prom. Not long after Ren and Ariel arrive at the prom, Chuck and several of his friends arrive to beat up Ren. However, Ren, Willard, Rusty and Ariel subdue them. Ren then flings confetti into a shredding machine and yells, "Let's dance!" The movie ends with everyone dancing to the opening song "Footloose".