Immortals is a 2011 American epic-fantasy-action-adventure film directed by Tarsem Singh and starring Henry Cavill, Freida Pinto, and Mickey Rourke.[2] The film also stars Luke Evans, Steve Byers, Kellan Lutz, Joseph Morgan, Stephen Dorff, Daniel Sharman, Alan van Sprang, Isabel Lucas, Corey Sevier, and John Hurt. The film was previously named Dawn of War and War of the Gods before being officially named Immortals, and is loosely based on the Greek myths of Theseus, the Minotaur and the Titanomachy.Before the dawn of man and beast, Immortals waged war against each other in Heaven. The victors declared themselves gods while the vanquished were renamed the Titans and imprisoned beneath Mount Tartarus. The Epirus Bow, a weapon of immense power, was lost on Earth during the war.In 1228 B.C., the mortal king Hyperion[4] of Heraklion searches for the bow, intending to use it to release the Titans to get revenge on the gods for failing to save his family from disease. Hyperion captures the virgin oracle Phaedra, believing that she can use her visions to find the Epirus Bow's resting place.In a small village nearby, the inhabitants prepare to flee to Mount Tartarus to avoid Hyperion's army. One inhabitant named Theseus is a skilled warrior trained by his mentor, a mysterious old man. Theseus and his mother Aethra, are considered undesirables because Theseus was born from Aethra being raped, and they are forced to stay behind by Athenian soldiers including Lysander. Theseus is able to beat multiple opponents until the Athenian officer Helios intervenes and discharges Lysander from the army for his actions. Lysander travels to Hyperion, offering his service and the village's location. Hyperion accepts, but hammers Lysander's testicles for being a traitor so he can never father children. Hyperion's forces attack Theseus's village, murdering the villagers and Aethra, and taking Theseus captive.The old man is revealed to be Zeus when he meets with his fellow gods Athena, Poseidon, Ares, Apollo, and Heracles. Zeus warns them not to interfere in mortal affairs as gods unless the Titans are released, and that they must have faith in mankind to defeat Hyperion.Theseus is enslaved alongside the thief Stavros. Phaedra, who is held captive nearby, sees a vision of Theseus. Phaedra organizes a riot, using the chaos to escape with Theseus, Stavros, and the other slaves. Theseus decides to pursue Hyperion and attempts to capture a boat, but he and his allies are overwhelmed by Hyperion's forces. Poseidon disobeys Zeus' orders and falls from Olympus into the ocean, causing a tsunami that wipes out Hyperion's men. Phaedra sees another vision of Theseus standing near a shrouded body. She determines that Theseus must return home to bury Aethra.While laying Aethra to rest in the village's labyrinth, Theseus discovers the Epirus Bow embedded in nearby rock. He frees the Epirus Bow, but is attacked by Hyperion's henchman the Minotaur. Theseus kills the Minotaur and uses the Bow to save his allies from being executed before collapsing from poisoned scratches inflicted by the Minotaur. Phaedra tends to Theseus and later falls in love with him. They make love to each other, stripping her of the visions she deemed a curse.The group returns to Phaedra's temple while Hyperion and his forces are away at Mount Tartarus. At the temple, Stavros and Theseus are lured into an ambush and Theseus loses the Epirus Bow. Outnumbered by Hyperion's men, Ares directly intervenes to save Theseus, and Athena provides the men with horses to reach Mount Tartarus. Zeus arrives and angrily kills Ares for disobeying his command. Zeus tells Theseus and his allies to let Ares' death be a warning to both the gods and them that they will receive no more help from the gods, and he must justify the faith Zeus has in him alone. Before leaving with Athena, Zeus tells Theseus to prove him right. The lost Epirus Bow is brought to Hyperion.Theseus, Stavros, and Phaedra travel to Mount Tartarus. Theseus tries in vain to warn Hellenics' King Cassander of Hyperion's plans, but Cassander dismisses his talk of gods as myth, intending to negotiate peace with Hyperion. The following day, Hyperion uses the Bow to destroy Mount Tartarus' seemingly indestructible gate.Theseus leads the Hellenic army to war against the Hyperion forces, killing Lysander. Hyperion ignores the battle, storms through to Mount Tartarus, and kills Helios and Cassander, using the Epirus Bow to breach the mountain and free the Titans before Stavros and Theseus can stop him. The force of the release knocks the mortals down. Knocked into the vault and unable to escape, Stavros retrieves the Epirus Bow and kills a Titan to buy Theseus time to get away, but is killed by the other Titans. Zeus, Poseidon, Athena, Heracles, and Apollo arrive and battle the Titans while Theseus fights Hyperion. Zeus destroys the Epirus Bow, and the gods prove more than a match for the Titans, but they are overwhelmed by sheer numbers, with all but Zeus and Poseidon being killed. Theseus kills Hyperion while Zeus collapses Mount Tartarus on the Titans. As the mountain is collapsing, Zeus picks up Athena's body and ascends to Olympus along with a badly wounded Poseidon. The collapsing mountain wipes out all of Hyperion's men. The mortally wounded Theseus is also transported to Olympus for his sacrifice and given a place among the gods.Several years later, Theseus' story has become legend, and Phaedra has given birth to Theseus' son Acamas, a gift from the gods. Acamas, an oracle like his mother was, is met by Zeus in his old man persona, who informs the child that in the future, he too will one day fight against evil and that he mustn't fear his visions. Acamas sees a vision of the sky filled with thousands of gods and Titans fighting (including Zeus and a fully healed Poseidon) with Theseus leading the charge.