Judy Moody and the Not Bummer Summer is a 2011 American comedy film based on Megan McDonald's Judy Moody book series released on June 10, 2011 and starring Heather Graham, Preston Bailey, Taylar Hender, Jaleel White, and introducing Jordana Beatty as Judy Moody. Reviews have been critically negative, as the film holds a 19% rating from Rotten Tomatoes. The film grossed $17 million against a production budget of $20 million, debuting number 7 at the box office on its opening weekend.




This section's tone or style may not reflect the encyclopedic tone used on Wikipedia. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for suggestions. (May 2015) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

The movie tells the story of a feisty third-grader, Judy Moody, who sets out to have the most thrilling summer of her life. However, her parents (Kristoffer Winters and Janet Varney) are going to California to help Judy's grandparents. Judy and her brother Stink (Parris Mosteller) have to stay with their Aunt Opal (Heather Graham). Judy decides to organize a contest with her friends to see who can have the most exciting summer. To win the contest, you must have a certain amount of "thrill points". At the start of her summer, it starts to go badly. All of her friends leave and go to someplace on a summer vacation, except for Frank (Preston Bailey). Amy was going to Borneo and Rocky was going to Circus Camp. Her friends keep sending her pictures of their summer, so she tries to top them, so she can earn more thrill points than them. But Frank was ruining all her plans because he knocked Judy off a tight rope, puked all over her on a roller coaster, and left the theater in the middle of a scary movie. All of her ideas go wrong, so she decides to stay in her room for the rest of the summer, until she hears the newscast in front of her house. She looks out of the window and discovers that Stink is going to be on the news, because of his search for Bigfoot. She runs outside and tries to jump into the camera, but unfortunately, the camera crew stops the cameras from filming her.Judy tries to pair up with her brother Stink in the search for Bigfoot. One day while they were out, they see Bigfoot walking the streets. They try to chase him, but he jumps inside of an ice cream van. They end up seeing two of the members from Zeke's Bigfoot search club, and get into the van with them. They continue to chase after Bigfoot, until the newscast van hurries and jump in front of them. Judy and the others drive around them, and end up finding them in the Fun Zone, an old amusement park. Bigfoot and the ice cream van driver (discovered to be Mr. Todd) get out of the van. They find out that Bigfoot really is Zeke in disguise, and that he was helping Mr. Todd sell ice cream. As a prize for finding Mr. Todd, Judy gets two front row seat tickets for the circus. Judy ends up participating in a circus act (because it was Rocky's family). As she gets sawed in half, the scene goes to her in her backyard in front of her family getting sawed in half. Her Aunt Opal is about to leave, but before she leaves, her and Judy goes to put the hats on the lions and she gets more thrill points. She got the most thrill points, she says, from meeting her Aunt Opal. Aunt Opal says to Judy that next year, she's planning on wrapping the whole Eiffel Tower with 10,000 scarves and wants Judy to help her.The movie ends with them getting money for Stink's Bigfoot statue getting touched by the neighborhood.