The Lincoln Lawyer is a 2011 American legal thriller film adapted from the novel of the same name by Michael Connelly, starring Matthew McConaughey, Ryan Phillippe, William H. Macy, Bryan Cranston and Marisa Tomei. The film is directed by Brad Furman, with a screenplay written by John Romano.Criminal defense attorney Mickey Haller (Matthew McConaughey) operates around Los Angeles County, mostly from the back seat of his black Lincoln Town Car, chauffeured by Earl (Laurence Mason). Most of Haller's career has been defending garden-variety criminals, including a local biker club led by Eddie Vogel (Trace Adkins).A high-profile case comes his way and Haller is hired to represent wealthy Louis Roulet (Ryan Phillippe), a Beverly Hills playboy and son of real estate mogul Mary Windsor (Frances Fisher). Roulet is accused of brutally beating prostitute Regina Campo (Margarita Levieva). Roulet insists he is the innocent victim of a frame-up. Haller and his investigator, Frank Levin (William H. Macy) analyze photos and evidence and find it similar to one of Haller's past cases that resulted in a life-sentence for his client, Jesus Martinez (Michael Peña), for murdering a woman, despite his repeatedly proclaiming his innocence.Haller's ex-wife, prosecutor Maggie McPherson (Marisa Tomei), has never appreciated Haller representing guilty clients, though they remain close. Haller wonders if he should have done more for Martinez rather than persuading him to plead guilty to avoid the death penalty. Haller visits the prison, where Martinez becomes agitated when Haller shows him Roulet's photo. Haller now believes Roulet is the killer in the Martinez case, but, bound by attorney–client confidentiality rules, is unable to reveal what he knows.Roulet breaks into Haller's house and nonchalantly admits to committing the murder for which Martinez was convicted. He makes veiled threats toward Haller's ex-wife and their daughter. Levin is found shot to death after leaving Haller a voicemail message claiming that he found Martinez's "ticket out of jail." Levin was shot with a .22 caliber pistol, and Haller discovers that his late father's .22 Colt Woodsman is missing from its box.Detective Lankford (Bryan Cranston), who dislikes Haller, discovers the gun's registration and suspects Haller's involvement in Levin's murder. Haller is certain that Roulet stole the weapon when he broke into Haller's home.Obligated to do his best for his client, guilty or not, Haller ruthlessly cross-examines Campo and discredits her in the jury's eyes. Haller then sets up a known prison informant with information on the previous murder. When the informant testifies, Haller discredits him, and the state's attorney (Josh Lucas) can only move to dismiss all charges. Roulet is set free, to his mother's delight, but the police arrest him immediately for the previous murder, based upon testimony Haller coaxed from the informant.Haller acquires a pistol from his driver, Earl, for protection. Roulet is released due to lack of evidence and intends to kill Haller's ex-wife and daughter. Haller is waiting at Maggie's house when Roulet arrives. He mockingly tells Haller that he cannot guard his family all the time. The bikers whom Haller previously represented suddenly arrive and brutally beat Roulet.Maggie discovers that Levin had found a parking ticket that was issued to Roulet near the previous murder victim's house. It is strong evidence against Roulet in his pending murder trial and will support Martinez's innocence. Upon arriving home, Haller discovers Roulet's mother, Mary Windsor, waiting inside. She shoots him with the Colt Woodsman, confessing that she murdered Levin to protect her son. A wounded Haller shoots and kills her.When Haller is released from the hospital, he learns that Martinez has been released, and that the District Attorney will seek the death penalty against Roulet. As Haller rides off to his next case, he is pulled over by Vogel and the biker gang, whose next case he takes pro bono due to their previous help.