Martha Marcy May Marlene is a 2011 American thriller drama film written and directed by Sean Durkin, and starring Elizabeth Olsen, John Hawkes, Sarah Paulson, and Hugh Dancy. The plot focuses on a young woman suffering from delusions and paranoia after returning to her family from an abusive cult in the Catskill Mountains. The film contains several references to the music of Jackson C. Frank.Martha (Marcy May) escapes from an abusive cult in the Catskill mountains to a nearby town. While in a diner she is confronted by a cult member who attempts to convince her to return, but she refuses. Martha calls her Sister Lucy who demands to see her and Lucy picks up Martha and takes Martha to her vacation lake house in Connecticut that she shares with her husband Ted.In a flashback Martha meets the cult leader Patrick for the first time and Christens her as Marcy May and welcomes her as a friend to the cult.Martha meets her new brother in law and begins showing extreme bad behaviors such as swimming in a public lake naked,sleeping all the time, unable to eat any meals and gets into minor arguments with her sister and brother in law about how to live as she attempts to reintegrate back into American Society. Lucy reveals she abandoned Martha and is now attempting to get her back into her life and is also trying to have a baby.In another Flashback Martha is seen integrating into the cult life and one night wakes up to being raped by Patrick, but is convinced she needs to share herself and be more open with others which Martha complies with.Martha goes into her sister and brother in law while they're having sex with the only defense that is was a big bed to Teds fury. Martha and Ted's arguments escalate when Martha berates Ted for how he lives life and berates Martha for being a free loader to which Martha lashes out at Ted and leaves. That night she attempts to contact the cult, but is only greeted by a girl named Marlene Miller, but Martha looses her nerve and hangs up.In a flashback at the cult, Martha helps handle a girl now named Sally to integrate into the cult and helps Patrick drug and rape Sally as she was once did to her. Now a full cult member, Patrick attempts to get Martha to kill a cat and then another cult member, but Martha refuses. Martha then begins participating in the cults burglar activities.Martha goes to a social party thrown by her sister and brother in law and has a psychotic episode when she says she recognizes one of the bar tenders as a cult member and has to be sedated. Ted attempts to convince Lucy to send Martha to a mental institution to which Lucy rejects.In a flashback at the cult, Patrick has abandoned his relationship with Martha for Sally to Martha's disappointment and then engages in an orgy with other Cult members as Patrick angrily looks on. Martha goes on a burglar run with the cult which culminates in one of the cult members stabbing an innocent man that discovered them to Martha's shock and horror. Martha begins struggling as she is now over worked in the cult and has a break down in the house and Patrick forcefully subdues Martha and berates her for her failing to follow the cults ideals to which Martha apologizes and this event leads to Martha fleeing the cult in the beginning of the film.In the present final scenes, Martha has a nightmare and has a panic attack to which Ted tries to help Martha, but Martha accidentally kicks him down the stairs to which Lucy angrily confronts Martha and tells her she is going to send her to a mental institution to which Martha angrily tells Lucy she is going to be a terrible mother. Lucy cries, but promises to pay for her treatment. The next day Lucy and Martha semi make up and Martha goes swimming and notices a man in cult clothes watching her and she leaves. While leaving the house with Lucy and Ted, the cult member is seen stopping her family's car and he quickly jumps in his car and begins following while Martha says nothing as the cult member begins following them.