The Son of No One is a 2011 American crime thriller film written by Dito Montiel based on a book of the same name, written by Montiel. The film is Dito Montiel's third collaboration with actor Channing Tatum.[2]In 2002, a young cop, Jonathan White, is a rookie officer under Captain Marion Mathers in a Queens neighborhood in New York City, where he grew up. To provide for his wife Kerry and ailing young daughter, he works hard to keep his life on track, but this life is threatened when a dark secret bubbles to the surface. An anonymous source reveals new information about two unsolved murders from 1986, in the same neighborhood.[3] In 1986, 14-year-old Jonathan killed two men in self-defense. His friends Vinnie and Vicky helped him dispose of the bodies and keep their involvement a secret from the authorities. The detective on the case, Stanford, knew Jonathan was involved, but disposed of the evidence out of loyalty to Jonathan's late father, who had been his partner.In the present, Jonathan meets with Vinnie, who has descended into mental illness, for the first time in years. He has been getting anonymous phone calls and letters threatening to expose what he did 16 years before. He contacts Loren Bridges, the reporter who is trying to create a newspaper story out of the source material that has been leaked. He tries to convince her not to publish the story, but she refuses and leaves. Once she leaves the restaurant, she is followed and murdered by an unseen assailant. When Kerry demands to know what is going on, Jonathan admits to her that he was responsible for the killings.The next morning, Jonathan learns of Loren's death before he receives a call from Captain Mathers, who informs him that Jonathan's partner is waiting for him outside. He is taken to Mathers and Stanford, who is now the city's police commissioner and plans to hand the job to Mathers after he retires. Mathers shows pictures taken of Jonathan and Loren in the restaurant before her death. Mathers and Stanford tell him that they had Loren killed to prevent her from publishing the story and making the department look bad; they then threaten to frame him for her murder unless he cooperates.Jonathan heads home, but soon turns around and drives to Vinnie's apartment, knowing that Mothers and Stanford are going to kill him. He arrives to find the men about to murder Vinnie on the roof. Jonathan tries to intervene, but his partner holds him back, and Mathers shoots and wounds him. Mathers hands a gun to Vinnie and orders him to kill Jonathan, but Vinnie decides instead to shoot Mathers. Stanford then shoots Vinnie, who falls off of the roof. Stanford tells Jonathan to leave and forget about everything that happened. Jonathan reluctantly leaves and goes to find a dying Vinnie, who tells him that he never told anyone what happened.Mathers' death and the two murders in 1986 are blamed on Vinnie, who is portrayed as a mentally unstable murderer in the media. Jonathan tries to carry on a normal life. The movie closes with an older Vicky sending a letter to Jonathan, explaining this will be her last letter—thus identifying herself as the person sending the letters to the newspaper.