Tower Heist is a 2011 American heist comedy film directed by Brett Ratner and written by Ted Griffin and Jeff Nathanson, based on a story by Bill Collage, Adam Cooper and Griffin. The plot follows Josh Kovaks (Ben Stiller), Charlie Gibbs (Casey Affleck) and Enrique Dev'reaux (Michael Peña), employees of an exclusive apartment building who lose their pensions in the Ponzi scheme of Wall Street businessman Arthur Shaw (Alan Alda). The group enlist the aid of criminal Slide (Eddie Murphy), bankrupt businessman Mr. Fitzhugh (Matthew Broderick) and another employee of the apartment building, Odessa (Gabourey Sidibe), to break into Shaw's apartment and steal back their money while avoiding the FBI agent in charge of his case, Claire Denham (Téa Leoni).Josh Kovaks is the building manager of The Tower, an upscale apartment complex in New York City. Its employees include concierge Charlie, who is expecting a child with Josh's sister; Enrique, a newly hired elevator operator; Lester, the doorman nearing retirement; Odessa, an immigrant maid from Jamaica; and receptionist Miss Iovenko, who is studying to become a lawyer.One morning Josh witnesses Arthur Shaw, a wealthy Tower resident, being kidnapped. Josh gives chase, but is tackled by FBI agent Claire Denham, who explains that Shaw was attempting to flee the country and avoid arrest for embezzling $2 billion in a Ponzi scheme. Josh confesses to the Tower staff that he gave their pensions to Shaw to invest, and they have lost everything; Lester attempts suicide. After visiting Lester in hospital, Josh, Charlie, and Enrique confront Shaw, under house arrest in his penthouse apartment. Shaw's half-hearted condolences anger Josh and he smashes the windows of the 1963 Ferrari 250 GT Lusso displayed in Shaw's apartment. Josh, Charlie, and Enrique are fired for the assault.Josh meets Denham at a bar where she drunkenly suggests that Shaw has concealed $20 million as a reserve, and that Josh should steal it. Josh, Charlie, Enrique, and evicted Tower tenant Mr. Fitzhugh conspire to find and steal the money from Shaw's assumed safe. They supplement their inexperience by enlisting Josh's childhood friend Slide, a petty criminal, and Odessa, who has locksmith experience that can help open the safe. Charlie is later rehired as the Tower's new manager, and warns Josh to abandon the plan or he will inform the police. Subsequently, Denham informs Josh that Shaw is scheduled to attend court on Thanksgiving during the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade to avoid publicity, and that Shaw will be set free. Josh and his team decide to break into Shaw's apartment during the parade.Slide attempts to betray the team by reaching the safe first, having tricked Odessa into giving him lessons. The team intercepts him at Shaw's apartment, and during the ensuing altercation they break down a false wall, revealing Shaw's empty safe. Slide and Fitzhugh fight over Slide's gun; the gun goes off and the bullet hits the car, revealing gold underneath the Ferrari's paint. They realize that Shaw used his money to buy gold, turn it into car parts, and assembled the car to hide the money in plain sight. Josh finds a ledger of Shaw's illegal finances in the car's glove box.As they reach the lobby, Denham and Shaw return, revealing the Thanksgiving court date as a ruse. Denham notes the missing car and Shaw's safe and rearrests him for violating his bail by not declaring the latter. Denham and the FBI arrest Josh and the crew (except Slide) as they walk outside the Tower. Miss Iovenko arrives, telling the FBI that she passed her bar exam three days ago and is acting as Josh's attorney. She shows them Shaw's ledger and tells them she will turn it over in exchange for everyone's freedom. The FBI accepts on the condition that Josh, being the primary conspirator, must serve a minimal two-year sentence, but Denham lowers it to 16 months to make sure Josh gets out for good behavior. Shaw is convicted and sentenced to life in prison.The team retrieve the car and send various parts of it to Tower employees to compensate for their lost pensions. As Josh is led to his cell, a cheeky smile slowly forms on his face.