What's Your Number? is a 2011 romantic comedy film directed Mark Mylod and starring Anna Faris and Chris Evans. Written by Gabrielle Allan and Jennifer Crittenden, it is based on Karyn Bosnak's book 20 Times a Lady. The film was released on September 30, 2011.In Boston, Ally Darling (Anna Faris) is a thirty-something woman who is struggling to make better decisions with her life. Her boyfriend Rick (Zachary Quinto) breaks up with her when she asks him to attend her sister Daisy's (Ari Graynor) upcoming wedding, and she then gets laid off from her job. While taking the subway home, Ally comes across a Marie Claire magazine article entitled "What's Your Number?", which says that women who have more than twenty lovers in their lifetime have difficulty finding a husband. After making a list of all the men she slept with, she realizes that her number is nineteen, making her decide not to have sex with anyone else until she finds "the one". She then wakes up after Daisy's bachelorette party and discovers that she hooked up with her ex-boss Roger (Joel McHale). Hoping to avoid an awkward confrontation, Ally lets her musician neighbor Colin Shea (Chris Evans) into her apartment so that Roger will leave. It turns out that Colin was only over to avoid a girl that he slept with, because he doesn't want to give the women he sees any expectations.Ally then runs into "Disgusting Donald" (Chris Pratt), her once overweight ex-boyfriend who's now successful and good-looking, and his fiancee. She decides to track down all of her ex-boyfriends in the hope that one of them will have grown into the man she wants to marry, and therefore the number of men she has slept with will never have to increase. She gets help from Colin (who's skilled in 'digging up dirt') to find all of her exes in exchange for letting him stay in her place after his one-night stands, telling Colin to pay particular attention to one ex Jake Adams (Dave Annable), who Ally sees as 'the one that got away'. Things do not quite work out the way she expected and Ally remembers why it didn't work out with those men in the first place. Depressed after an unsuccessful search, Ally has a night out with Colin that culminates in the two growing closer and almost having sex. She stops him, but without a boyfriend decides to take him as her date to Daisy's wedding. Daisy and Ally's friends worry she is falling for Colin and warn her off him, reminding her of his promiscuous nature. Soon Ally is furious when she finds out that Colin had found Jake Adams' contact details after all but withheld them in belief that they were going to become an item, and the two have a falling out.She successfully contacts Jake and the two begin to date again. Ally attends her sister's wedding with him while Colin and his band perform at a different wedding. During a slow-dance with Jake at the reception, Ally confesses her 'number' to Jake, and Jake, thinking she's joking expresses disgust at the thought. Ally quickly realizes that her true feelings lie with Colin and that she and Jake are incompatible, breaking it off with him. Ally then has to run to numerous weddings before she finally finds Colin and confesses her feelings.Waking up with Colin the next morning, Ally gets a call from an old boyfriend (Aziz Ansari) telling her that they in fact did not sleep together. Ally rejoices in the fact that Colin is indeed the 20th and last man she ever slept with.