Alter Egos is a 2012 American superhero comedy film[1] written, edited, and directed by Jordan Galland. The film, starring Kris Lemche, Sean Lennon, Danny Masterson, and Geneva Carr, was distributed by Kevin Smith's SModcast Pictures and Phase 4 Films.[2] It premiered was at the Fantasia Film Festival on July 24, 2012, where it was chosen as an official selection.The plot follows the misadventures of the Fridge, an under-appreciated superhero, at a time when superheroes have lost government funding and all public support. In a synopsis by Interview Magazine:"Alter Egos inhabits a fantasy world where superheroes are a dime a dozen. If you have the powers, as lead supers Fridge (Kris Lemche), and C-Thru (Joey Kern), do, then, well, you can practice them for good, as long as you follow the guidelines, or at least some of them. Quite obviously, this is a parody of parodies and flips the superhero genre on its head. Like Superman, Fridge is dorky in his human clothes. Unlike Superman, it's not because he has to do so to keep his identity under wraps—more like he uses his superhero garb to explore different facets of his personality, as evidenced by the title. Somewhere along the storyline, he must tackle the fact that his girlfriend loves his superhero identity more than his unmasked self, and, naturally, face his nemesis, the man who killed his mom and dad—although he really doesn't want to."[3]


We went through several versions of the style, or the approach, that we were going to take. At first, we did a kind of goofy, Napoleon Dynamite sort of thing which didn't really work out. It sort of highlighted the wrong aspects of the film. Then there was another direction we went, which was a retro Italian superhero film, kind of a Barbarella direction. I really enjoyed making that music, but it didn't ground the film and it lacked gravity. Despite how silly the film is and how kind of comedic it is, it needed a certain seriousness to sort of propel the more important aspects of the narrative – you know, the parents having been killed by this bad guy and the superhero avenging the murder of his parents. It needed some grounding. That was when we sort of went with the third direction, which was kind of a straight-up action hero style– a serious, orchestrated superhero score.


Sean Lennon in Rolling Stone Interview[4]