Bachelorette is a 2012 American romantic comedy film written and directed by Leslye Headland, adapted from her play of the same name.[5] It stars Kirsten Dunst, Lizzy Caplan and Isla Fisher as three troubled women who reunite for the wedding of a friend (played by Rebel Wilson) who was ridiculed in high school. The play which the film is based upon was originally written as one of Headland's cycle of "Seven Deadly Sins" plays.The film opens with Regan (Kirsten Dunst), a miserable careerist in her early thirties, having lunch with her longtime friend, Becky (Rebel Wilson), who reveals that she's getting married to her boyfriend, Dale. Although secretly jealous and embittered by the fact that her "fat friend" is now engaged, Regan notifies their two other friends, the sardonic cocaine addict Gena (Lizzy Caplan) and the rowdy party girl Katie (Isla Fisher).Six months later, the women are preparing for Becky's impromptu bachelorette party that evening; Gena flies into New York from Los Angeles, and the four meet at the hotel, where Katie announces that Gena has brought cocaine for all of them to do. At the dinner party that night, Gena runs into her ex-boyfriend Clyde (Adam Scott), whom she sees flirting with Dale's younger sister, and Katie runs into Joe (Kyle Bornheimer), a former classmate and pot dealer. Trevor (James Marsden), the best man, gives a speech at the party, and Gena, high on cocaine, reveals in her toast that she once caught Becky forcing herself to throw up in the high school bathrooms.After the dinner, the women go to their suite, where Katie's gay co-worker arrives and does a striptease for the women, but Becky stops it after he jokingly calls her "Pigface", a cruel nickname of hers in high school. Becky leaves the bachelorette party, and Regan, Gena and Katie are left in the hotel room where they drink and continue to do cocaine. Drunk and high, the three accidentally rip Becky's bridal gown, and Katie gets a nosebleed and stains it with her blood.Regan contacts a friend who owns a bridal store, who reluctantly agrees to open the store for them in the middle of the night. After unsuccessfully searching the store for a dress that will fit Becky, Katie reveals that she can sew, which leads the women on a hunt for thread and a sewing machine. Trevor text messages Regan asking the girls to stop by the strip club the men are at, which they agree to. Gena takes the dress into the strip club's bathroom where she attempts to clean it; there, she has a conversation with a stripper who begins using the dress as a towel and toilet paper. Regan, furious over the situation, gets into an argument with Gena, who insists they confess everything to Becky, and it is revealed in the argument that Gena had an abortion. Gena leaves the club with Clyde and the dress.Meanwhile, Joe attempts to woo Katie, who is heavily intoxicated and high on cocaine, and Regan ends up having sex with Trevor in the hotel bathroom. Clyde and Gena spend the evening together reminiscing and have sex. Meanwhile, Joe and Katie spend the night in the hotel swimming pool, where Katie reveals that she attempted suicide the year before. Becky calls and asks Regan to come to her room so they can talk; in their conversation, it is revealed that Regan is bulimic, and that Becky covered it for her in high school. Just as Regan begins to tell Becky about her dress, Becky's mother arrives, and they begin to prepare for the wedding.Gena and Clyde head to the wedding in the morning while the party planners are unable to find the missing dress. Gena asks a maid at the hotel to help her make some small touch-ups to the dress before bringing it to Becky; meanwhile, Katie locks herself in the bathroom and overdoses on Xanax. While Regan forces Katie to vomit the pills, she ends up puking all over Regan's dress. Regan, in an attempt to buy time, convinces Becky to ride to the wedding in her pajamas and put on the dress when she arrives. Becky, irate, screams at her mother and Regan in the taxi. Gena arrives to the wedding with the dress, still stained with blood.Becky ends up walking down the aisle while Regan and Gena sit on a bench and watch the ceremony, where they are joined by Katie, who arrives late. At the reception, Joe and Katie talk and kiss, Regan tries to sleep, and Clyde gives an obscene speech about having sex with Gena the night before. The film ends as the four women make up and dance together at the reception.