Beauty and the Beast is a 1991 American animated musical romantic fantasy drama film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The 30th Disney animated feature film and the third released during the Disney Renaissance period, it is based on the French fairy tale of the same name by Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont (who was also credited in the English version as well as in the French version),[6] and ideas from the 1946 French film of the same name directed by Jean Cocteau.[7] Beauty and the Beast focuses on the relationship between the Beast (voice of Robby Benson),[8] a prince who is magically transformed into a monster as punishment for his arrogance, and Belle (voice of Paige O'Hara),[8] a young woman whom he imprisons in his castle. To become a prince again, Beast must learn to love Belle and earn her love in return to avoid remaining a monster forever. The film also features the voices of Richard White, Jerry Orbach, David Ogden Stiers, and Angela Lansbury.[8]On a winter's night, an enchantress disguised as a beggar woman arrives at a castle and offers its owner, a cold-hearted prince, a rose in exchange for shelter. When he callously turns her away, she transforms him into a hideous beast and his servants into household objects. She bestows the Beast with a magic mirror before hexing the rose and warning him that, unless he learns to love another and earns their love in return by the time the last petal falls, he will lose his humanity forever.Ten years later, Belle dreams of adventure and brushes off advances from Gaston, an arrogant hunter. Lost in the forest while traveling to a fair to present his latest invention, Belle's father Maurice seeks refuge in the Beast's castle. After Maurice befriends the castle's servants, however, the Beast imprisons him. Belle ventures out in search for him and finds him locked in the castle's dungeon. The Beast agrees to let her take Maurice's place.Befriending the castle's servants, Belle is treated to a spectacular dinner. When she wanders into the forbidden West Wing, the Beast, enraged, frightens her into the woods. She is cornered by wolves, but the Beast rescues Belle and gets injured in the process. He begins to develop feelings for her while she nurses his wounds and he delights her by showing his extensive library.Returning to the village, Maurice tells the townsfolk of Belle's predicament, but Gaston convinces the townsfolk to send Maurice to an insane asylum if Belle refuses Gaston's proposal again.After sharing a romantic dance with the Beast, Belle discovers her father's predicament using a magic mirror. The Beast releases her to save Maurice, giving her the mirror to remember him with. Back at her village, Belle proves Maurice's sanity by revealing the beast in the mirror to the townsfolk. Realizing that Belle loves the Beast, Gaston has her thrown into her basement with her father and rallies the villagers to follow him to the castle to slay the Beast. With Chip's aid, Maurice and Belle escape and Belle rushes back to the castle.During the battle, the servants fend off the villagers. Gaston attacks the Beast in his tower, who is too depressed to fight back, but regains his will upon seeing Belle return. He spares Gaston's life before reuniting with Belle. However, Gaston stabs the Beast in the back, but he loses his footing and falls to his death.[a] The Beast dies as the last petal falls. When Belle tearfully professes her love to him, the curse is undone, repairing the castle and restoring the Beast's and servants' human forms. The Prince and Belle host a ball for the kingdom, where they dance happily.