Bindlestiffs is a 2012 comedy film produced by Andrew Edison and Luke Loftin, the writers, editors, and main two stars, which also stars John Karna. The film was completed in 2011 but wasn't picked up until 2012 after its premiere at the Slamdance Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award for Best Narrative Feature. It was picked up for distribution in 2012 by Kevin Smith under his SModcast Pictures Presents label, in association with Phase 4 Films, the first under this label. It has received a somewhat cult status from the internet, becoming available on VOD, iTunes, and DVD from RedBox.On a normal day at a private high school, three teenagers, Andrew Edwards, John Woo, and Luke Locktin find themselves suspended from school after graffitiing a bathroom stall, in response to The Catcher in the Rye being banned at the school, a book which Andrew favors. After being suspended for the rest of the week, Andrew calls up Luke and John and tells them of his plan to hit up the city, living a life similar to that of The Catcher in the Rye. Throughout the course of the week many events occur, such as John ending up drunkingly having sex with a homeless woman after finding out that his teacher, whom he was infatuated with, was a lesbian. Andrew hires a prostitute, Caramel, (played by Adelaide Lummis) who has pretend sex with Luke as he gets nervous, but they later have consensual sex later.After deciding to get rid of the homeless woman (who was living with the three in their motel room), they take her to the woods behind their school, where the school security guard, Charlie, who had been tailing them all week, approaches them and shoots the homeless woman to death while startled. John then chases after Charlie, proceeds to beat him up, then tazes him into submission (and possibly death). The three boys have a funeral three weeks later, where Luke reveals his sexual luck, and Andrew reveals he had to perform fellatio for crack he couldn't pay for. After singing a nearly accurate version of Amazing Grace, Andrew and Luke leave John by himself, before he wanders off and the credits roll.