The Bourne Legacy is a 2012 American action thriller film directed by Tony Gilroy, and is the fourth installment in the series of films adapted from the Jason Bourne novels originated by Robert Ludlum and continued by Eric Van Lustbader, being preceded by The Bourne Identity (2002), The Bourne Supremacy (2004), and The Bourne Ultimatum (2007). Although this film has the same title as Van Lustbader's first Bourne novel, The Bourne Legacy, the actual screenplay bears little resemblance to the novel. Unlike the novel, which features Jason Bourne as the principal character, the film centers on black ops agent Aaron Cross (played by Jeremy Renner), an original character. In addition to Renner, the film stars Rachel Weisz and Edward Norton.Six weeks after Jason Bourne's (Matt Damon) escape from Moscow, Aaron Cross (Jeremy Renner), an operative belonging to a Defense Department black ops program called Operation Outcome, is assigned to Alaska for a training exercise. He is forced to survive weather extremes and traverse rugged terrain to arrive at a remote cabin as punishment for missing training and going off the grid for four days. The cabin is operated by an exiled Outcome operative, Number Three (Oscar Isaac), who informs Aaron that he has broken the mission record by two days. As an Outcome operative, Aaron uses experimental pills known as "chems" (chemicals) which enhance the physical and mental abilities of their users.Reporter Simon Ross (Paddy Considine) of The Guardian, who has been investigating the CIA programs Treadstone and Blackbriar, is assassinated at London Waterloo station (a scene from the previous film). When the illegal adaptation of the programs is exposed by Bourne, the FBI and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence investigate CIA Director Ezra Kramer (Scott Glenn), Deputy Director Pamela Landy (Joan Allen), Blackbriar supervisor Noah Vosen (David Strathairn), and Treadstone medical director Dr. Albert Hirsch (Albert Finney).Eight months after the mayhem in New York City and Bourne's escape, Kramer requests help from Mark Turso (Stacy Keach), a retired United States Navy admiral, who runs the National Research Assay Group (NRAG). Turso informs Eric Byer (Edward Norton), a retired Air Force colonel overseeing NRAG's research and development of various clandestine enhancement programs used by the CIA and Defense. Byer discovers a potentially scandalous video on the Internet showing Hirsch socializing with Dr. Dan Hillcott (Neil Brooks Cunningham), Outcome's medical director. To prevent the Senate investigation from learning about Outcome, Byer orders everyone associated with the program to be killed. He sees the sacrifice as acceptable to protect NRAG's next-generation "beta programs", including the supersoldier program LARX.



Predator, an unmanned aerial vehicle like the one featured in Legacy

Byer deploys a drone to eliminate Outcome agents Number Three and Five (Aaron) in Alaska. Aaron hears the drone's approach and leaves moments before a missile destroys the cabin with Number Three inside. Aaron removes the radio-frequency identification implanted in his thigh and force-feeds it to a wolf which is then blown up by a missile, tricking Byer into believing Aaron is dead. Hirsch dies of an apparent heart attack before he can testify before the Senate. At Sterisyn-Morlanta, a biogenetics company supporting Outcome, researcher Dr. Donald Foite (Željko Ivanek) shoots and kills all but one of his colleagues in the research laboratory. Security guards break into the lab and shoot him, though he seemingly does not feel the pain of the gunshots. Foite turns his gun on himself, leaving biochemist Dr. Marta Shearing (Rachel Weisz) as the sole survivor. Meanwhile, other Outcome agents are eliminated when their handlers give them poisoned yellow pills disguised as new chems.Four "D-Track" assassins disguised as federal agents visit Marta at her country house. After she states her belief of Foite having been chemically brainwashed into an emotionless killer, the assassins attempt to fake her suicide, but are killed by Aaron. He saves her life as she is his last link to the chems so that he can retain his enhanced capabilities and avoid withdrawal symptoms. Marta reveals that Cross has been genetically modified by a tailored virus to retain the physical benefits without needing the green chems anymore. He still requires regular doses of blue chems to maintain his intelligence, but he is running out. Aaron confides to her that he is Private First Class Kenneth J. Kitsom (reportedly killed by a roadside bomb in the Iraq War) and that his recruiter added twelve points to his IQ, enabling Aaron to meet the United States Army's requirements. Without his enhanced intelligence, Aaron believes they stand no chance of survival. Aaron and Marta travel to Manila, where the chems are manufactured, to try to infect him with another virus so he will not need the blue chems.Aaron and Marta bluff their way into the Morlanta Pacific pharmaceutical factory where the program's chems are manufactured, and Marta injects Aaron with the live virus stems. Byer alerts factory security, but Aaron and Marta evade capture. Byer orders LARX-03, a chemically brainwashed super soldier, to track down and kill them. As Aaron recovers from the flu-like symptoms induced by the virus, he hallucinates about his Outcome training. When police surround their shelter while Marta is buying medicine, she warns Aaron by screaming. Aaron rescues her and steals a motorbike. They are pursued by both the police and LARX-03. After a lengthy chase through the streets and marketplaces of Manila to Marikina, they lose the police, but not the assassin. Both Aaron and LARX-03 are wounded by bullets, though LARX-03 is not entirely fazed by the wounds due to pain suppression induced by his brainwashing. As Aaron begins losing consciousness, LARX-03 is killed when Marta causes his motorcycle to crash into a pillar. Marta persuades a Filipino boatman to help them escape by sea.Back in New York, Vosen lies to the Senate, stating that Blackbriar was created solely to track down Jason Bourne, and that Landy committed treason by assisting Bourne and trying to sell Treadstone secrets to the press.