The Dark Knight Rises is a 2012 superhero film directed by Christopher Nolan, who co-wrote the screenplay with his brother Jonathan Nolan, and the story with David S. Goyer. Featuring the DC Comics character Batman, the film is the final installment in Nolan's Batman film trilogy, and the sequel to Batman Begins (2005) and The Dark Knight (2008). Christian Bale reprises the lead role of Bruce Wayne/Batman, with a returning cast of allies: Michael Caine as Alfred Pennyworth, Gary Oldman as James Gordon, and Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox. The film introduces Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway), and Bane (Tom Hardy). Eight years after the events of The Dark Knight, merciless revolutionary Bane forces an older Bruce Wayne to resume his role as Batman and save Gotham City from nuclear destruction.Eight years after the death of district attorney Harvey Dent, the Dent Act grants the Gotham City Police Department powers which nearly eradicate organized crime. Police Commissioner James Gordon feels guilty for covering up Dent's crimes, from when he was turned into a murderer by the Joker. He writes a resignation speech confessing the truth, but decides against using it.Bruce Wayne has become a recluse, broken by the death of his childhood sweetheart Rachel Dawes and has retired as the vigilante Batman after taking the blame for Dent's crimes and death. Cat burglar Selina Kyle obtains Wayne's fingerprints from his home and kidnaps congressman Byron Gilley. She sells the fingerprints to Phillip Stryver, an assistant to Wayne's business rival John Daggett. She requests a "clean slate" that can wipe all traces of a person from the internet as payment.Stryver double-crosses Kyle, but she uses Gilley's phone to alert the police to their location. Gordon and the police arrive to find the congressman, and then pursue Stryver's men into the sewers while Selina flees. The police attempt to follow them into the sewers, but the men that enter are killed. Gordon is captured, while the rest of the police are assailed by sniper fire.The assailants drag Gordon to Bane, a masked terrorist, who had set up his base of operation in the sewers. Bane has him searched and finds his resignation speech. Gordon escapes and is found by John Blake, a patrol officer. Gordon promotes Blake to detective, with Blake reporting directly to him. Bane and multiple accomplices attack the Gotham Stock Exchange, using Bruce's fingerprints in a transaction that leaves Wayne bankrupt. Wayne's butler, Alfred Pennyworth, reveals that Rachel had intended to marry Dent before she died. Alfred then resigns in an attempt to convince Bruce to move on from being Batman.Wayne Enterprises is losing profits after Wayne discontinued his fusion reactor project when he learned that the core could be weaponized. Fearing that Daggett, Bane's employer, would gain access to the reactor, Wayne asks board member Miranda Tate to take over his company. Kyle agrees to take Batman to Bane but instead leads him into Bane's trap. Bane reveals that he intends to fulfill Ra's al Ghul's mission to destroy Gotham with the League of Shadows remnant before stealing Lucius Fox's gadgets. He then engages Batman and delivers a crippling blow to his back, before taking him to a heavily fortified prison. There, the inmates tell Wayne the story of Ra's al Ghul's child, who was born in the prison and cared for by a fellow prisoner before escaping—the only prisoner to have ever done so. Wayne assumes Bane is the child.Bane lures Gotham police underground and traps them. He kills Mayor Anthony Garcia and forces Dr. Leonid Pavel, a Russian nuclear physicist he kidnapped from Uzbekistan , to convert the reactor core into a nuclear bomb. Bane uses the bomb to hold the city hostage and isolate Gotham from the world. Using Gordon's stolen speech, Bane reveals the cover-up of Dent's crimes to the public, and releases the prisoners of Blackgate Penitentiary, initiating anarchy. The wealthy and powerful have their property expropriated, are dragged from their homes, and are given show trials presided over by Jonathan Crane, where all are sentenced to death.After spending months recovering and re-training, Wayne escapes from the prison. He enlists Kyle, Blake, Tate, Gordon, and Fox to help stop the bomb's detonation. He hands the Batpod to Kyle, tasking her with helping people evacuate and saving herself. She asks him to come along, leaving Gotham to its fate, but he refuses. After freeing the trapped police, they clash with Bane's army and in the midst, Batman overpowers Bane. He interrogates Bane for the bomb's trigger, but Tate intervenes and stabs Batman. She then reveals herself to be Talia al Ghul, Ra's al Ghul's daughter. Bane is her protector, who aided her escape from the prison. She uses the detonator, but by then Gordon has successfully approached the bomb and blocked her signal, preventing remote detonation. Talia leaves to find the bomb while Bane prepares to kill Batman. Kyle returns on the Batpod and saves Batman by killing Bane with it. Batman and Kyle pursue Talia, hoping to bring the bomb back to the reactor chamber where it can be stabilized. Talia's truck crashes, but she remotely floods and destroys the reactor chamber before dying. With no way to stop the detonation, Batman uses the Bat to haul the bomb over the bay, where it detonates, destroying the Bat.In the aftermath, Batman is presumed dead and is honored as a hero. With Wayne presumed killed in the riots, Wayne Manor becomes an orphanage, and his remaining estate is left to Alfred. Fox discovers that Wayne had fixed the Bat's autopilot and Gordon finds the Bat-Signal refurbished. While visiting Florence, Alfred discovers that Wayne is alive, well, and in a relationship with Selina Kyle. Blake resigns from the police force and, in accordance to Wayne's will, inherits the Batcave.