Diary of a Wimpy Kid: Dog Days is a 2012 American comedy film directed by David Bowers from a screenplay by Wallace Wolodarsky and Maya Forbes. It stars Zachary Gordon and Steve Zahn. Robert Capron, Devon Bostick, Rachael Harris, Peyton List, Grayson Russell, and Karan Brar also have prominent roles. It is the third installment in the Diary of a Wimpy Kid film series, and is based on the third and fourth books in the series, The Last Straw and Dog Days.[3]The Heffley family attends a pool party at the local pool, where the family meets a former trouble-making friend of Rodrick who is now a model student after attending a military school known as Spag Union. Greg's dad Frank thinks about enrolling Greg there.Greg's summer starts off badly: his father bans video games in anger at Greg's laziness, and his mother Susan starts a book club, but she does not see their books as real literature. Frank is also getting jealous of the neighbor's athletic kids, and after his video game ban, Susan forces Frank and Greg to bond with each other: their bonding activities end in disaster.A few weeks later, Greg's best friend, Rowley Jefferson, takes Greg to the local country club, where Greg enjoys the lifestyle and the fact that his crush, Holly Hills, teaches tennis there.Greg returns home to learn that Frank signed him up for an unpaid summer internship at his work without his consent, and Greg lies about having a job at the country club. Frank and Susan are delighted, and give Greg's parents give him a starter cell phone, a Ladybug, which only allows him to call home or 911.Rowley invites Greg on a family trip to their beach house near the Boardwalk, but Greg finds the lifestyle banal and attempts to escape. He tries to call home using his Ladybug phone, but the phone rejects the call, and after he inadvertently calls 911, the police arrive, almost leading to the arrest of Rowley's father, who sends home Greg in disgust.Rowley doesn't allow Greg to tag along with him to the country club because of the beach house incident, but Greg sneaks in, meets with Holly and her sister Heather and manages to get Löded Diper a gig at Heather's sweet sixteen, much to Rodrick's delight.Rowley and Greg quickly make up, but Rowley is unable to attend the club, forcing Greg to sneak in. One morning, Frank drops Greg off, only to be confronted by Rowley's father: Greg has built up a $260 fruit smoothie bill from his time at the country club. When Frank attempts to explain the situation, the clerk informs him that the club does not employ minors, and Greg is exposed. As a result, he receives a Spag Union disc, and fears he will be sent there.Rodrick informs Greg that the "Wilderness Weekend" could be a way to avoid Spag Union. Their troop proves weak compared to Frank's boss, Stan's, troop. Greg continues to mess things up, after the boys overhear Stan and his troop insulting Frank, Greg attempts to set up a plan for revenge by using traps, and finds out that Stan's troop has been using electric and other conveniences including pre-cooked meals and portable TVs rather than actually camping.Stan arrives at the tent, and Greg accidentally throws the tent into the campfire, and admits he was responsible. Frank, having lost his respect for Stan, then confronts him with the electronic conveniences, and Stan runs into Greg's trap, leaving him humilated.Frank reveals that he never liked camping anyway, and decides not to send Greg to Spag Union, much to Greg's surprise and delight. Frank gives Greg advice about learning from mistakes and taking responsibilities. The two discover they are much alike than they realize.At Heather's Sweet 16 birthday party a few days later, Löded Diper performs a hard rock version of "Baby" by Justin Bieber and Ludacris, during an attempt to win over Heather. However, Rodrick accidentally knocks over a huge ice sculpture of Heather, which results in her losing her temper and accidentally smashing a chocolate fountain with a microphone stand, splashing chocolate all over everybody, and the party ends in disaster.Holly then implies that she likes Greg by holding his hand, and in the final scene, Greg describes that his summer did not go the way he expected, but had positive circumstances.