Django Unchained is a 2012 American revisionist Western film written and directed by Quentin Tarantino, starring Jamie Foxx, Christoph Waltz, Leonardo DiCaprio, Kerry Washington, and Samuel L. Jackson, with Walton Goggins, Dennis Christopher, James Remar, Michael Parks, and Don Johnson in supporting roles. Set in the Old West and Antebellum South, it is a highly stylized tribute to Spaghetti Westerns, in particular the 1966 Italian film Django by Sergio Corbucci, whose star Franco Nero has a cameo appearance.In 1858 Texas, the Speck brothers, Ace and Dicky, drive a group of black slaves on foot. Among the shackled slaves is Django, sold off and separated from his wife, Broomhilda von Shaft. The Speck brothers are stopped by Dr. King Schultz, a German dentist-turned-bounty hunter from Düsseldorf, who asks to buy one of the slaves. He questions Django about his knowledge of the Brittle brothers, a group of outlaws for whom Dr. Schultz is carrying a warrant. When Ace becomes suspicious, Dr. Schultz, a superior gunslinger, kills Ace with a fast draw, then shoots Dicky's Horse, pinning Dicky to the ground and crushing his leg. Dr. Schultz insists on honorably paying Dicky a fair price for Django before leaving him at the mercy of the newly-freed slaves, who kill him and follow the North Star to freedom. As Django can identify the Brittle brothers, Dr. Schultz offers him his freedom in exchange for help tracking them down.After tracking and killing the Brittles to a plantation owned by Spencer "Big Daddy" Bennett, the liberated Django partners with Dr. Schultz through the winter and becomes his apprentice. They are also briefly hunted by Big Daddy but Dr. Schultz deceives and kills most of his gang with an explosive in their carriage, as Django kills Big Daddy himself. Dr. Schultz explains that he feels responsible for Django since Django is the first person he has ever freed, and felt morally obliged to help Django reunite with Broomhilda. Now fully trained, Django collects his first bounty, keeping the handbill for good luck.In 1859, Django and Dr. Schultz travel to Mississippi, where they learn the identity of Broomhilda's owner: Calvin J. Candie, the charming but cruel owner of the Candyland plantation, where slaves are forced to fight to the death in brutal wrestling matches called "Mandingo fights". Dr. Schultz and Django meet Calvin at his gentleman's club in Greenville and submit their offer to buy one of his best fighters; however, this is a pretense. Their ulterior motive is to purchase Broomhilda. Intrigued, Calvin invites them to his ranch at Candyland.After finding Broomhilda and telling her of their plan, Dr. Schultz claims to be charmed by her and offers to buy her as well. During dinner, Calvin's staunchly loyal house slave Stephen becomes suspicious. Deducing that Django and Broomhilda know each other and that the sale of the Mandingo fighter is a ruse, Stephen alerts Calvin, who alters the deal so that Broomhilda will be sold instead of the Mandingo fighter. Dr. Schultz agrees, and the papers for her freedom are drawn up and signed. Calvin smugly insists that the deal be sealed through a handshake, which Dr. Schultz refuses. When Calvin threatens to have his bodyguard Butch Pooch kill Broomhilda, Dr. Schultz kills Calvin by shooting him in the heart with a concealed derringer. As Stephen mourns over his master's death, Butch turns around and kills Dr. Schultz by shooting him with a sawed-off shotgun, and is killed by Django in turn with his own revolver. A shootout begins, and Django shoots down a great number of Calvin's henchmen before surrendering when Broomhilda is taken hostage.The next morning, Stephen tells Django that Calvin's sister, Lara Lee Candie-Fitzwilly, is in charge now, and he will be sold to a mine and worked to death. En route to the mine, Django proves to his escorts that he is a bounty hunter by showing them his handbill. The escorts release him and give him a pistol, which he uses to kill them before stealing a horse and returning to Candyland with a bag of dynamite. At the plantation, Django kills more of Calvin's henchmen, takes Broomhilda's freedom papers from the dead Dr. Schultz's pocket, and frees his wife from a nearby cabin. When Calvin's mourners return from his burial, Django kills Lara and the remaining henchmen, releases the two remaining house slaves, and kneecaps Stephen before igniting the dynamite that he has planted throughout the mansion. Django and Broomhilda watch from a distance as the mansion explodes, killing Stephen, before they ride off together.