Eden (Abduction of Eden) is a 2012 American dramatic film about human trafficking. It was directed by Megan Griffiths, who co-wrote the screenplay with Richard B. Phillips and stars Jamie Chung, Matt O'Leary and Beau Bridges. The film was produced by Colin Harper Plank and Jacob Mosler through Plank's Centripetal Films production company. It was inspired by the story of Chong Kim, who claims that she was kidnapped and sold into a domestic human trafficking ring in the mid 1990s.[1][2][3] It had its world premiere at the 2012 South by Southwest Film Festival.[4]Hyun Jae, or Jae for short, is an 18-year-old Korean-American girl living in New Mexico in 1994 with her immigrant parents. Jae goes out one night with a friend and is seduced by a fireman and is given a ride home by the fireman, but Jae notices the fire badge is fake and attempts to escape, but is promptly captured and is shown tied up in the trunk of a man's car at the beginning of the film.A marshal named Bob begins following a tracking beacon which leads him to the body of a dead teenage girl with a tracking bracelet strapped to her ankle which is currently being investigated by one officer as well as the landowner. Upon learning the officer has not called in the dead body, Bob promptly shoots both the officer and landowner.Jae is taken to an isolated warehouse where she is drugged and has her braces removed and personal belongings disposed of and is fitted with a tracking bracelet and put into a storage warehouse later called the stables. Jae is introduced to Bob who is revealed to be the leader of a sex trafficking ring and his drug addicted overseer Vaughn. Bob informs Jae that he has information about her parents and that they will be harmed if she doesn't cooperate and renames her Eden and gives her some time to adapt to her new life. Eden is forced to go through daily pregnancy tests and mystery injections from the nurse and is forced to star in sex videos and prostituted out where she attempts to escape but is promptly captured by Vaughn and is forced to lay in a bathtub of ice as punishment where she could possibly die.One year passes and Eden has adapted to life in the operation and has befriended her bunk mate Priscilla who informs her that once a girl gets too old they are mysteriously taken away, moments later Priscilla is taken away for unknown reasons. Eden notices that Vaughn's trustee has obtained her ring she was given by her father the day of her abduction and makes an attempt to forcibly retrieve it from her which Vaughn and an enforcer intervenes. Vaughn forces Eden to eat the ring, but Eden volunteers to assist Vaughn in over seeing the operation and can help him with accounting which Vaughn rejects. After performing one night at a college fraternity party, Eden assists Vaughn in accounting from the fraternity and assists Vaughn in recapturing 2 girls who attempted to escape and obtains Vaughn's trust. Eden begins replaced Vaughn's old trustee and begins answering phones and assisting with day to day operations and is taken out of the sex field side of the operation.Bob is shown leading a seminar on drug trafficking, but is questioned by detectives as he was placed by a GPS at the location of a missing deputy and landowner which Bob denies. Eden and Vaughn meet Bob later to dispose of bodies in the nearby lake including Vaughn's old trustee. Vaughn kills Bob on the boat presumably because of his implication the death of the deputy and landowner.One day while answering phones, Eden is taking a customers order where the customer asks how much which is an indication that it is a police sting, but Eden ignores the advise and takes the order and says nothing. Eden and Vaughn take a girl to a man's house named Mario and instantly recognizes him as the one who abducted her. Eden explores the house and finds Priscilla who is heavily pregnant and gets into a small argument and leaves to throw up as Eden realizes they sell babies. Vaughn notices Eden's small breakdown and attempts to force Eden to kill a girl in the desert to prove her loyalty but is stopped at the last minute by Vaughn.Vaughn is informed that one of his enforcers have flipped on the operation, presumably because of Eden sending him to a sting. Eden is forced to start packing the girls for the move, and is taken to Vaughn's house where Vaughn informs her they are moving to Dubai. While Eden is left a lone, she covers Vaughn's meth pipe in chemicals which Vaughn inhales and dies. Eden cuts the tracking bracelet off her ankle freeing herself from the operation and takes drugs and money from Vaughn's house and goes to Mario's house. Eden attempts to negotiate Priscilla's freedom, but Mario refuses but asks to see her again which Mario agrees, but while his back is turned Eden injects Mario with drugs and kills him. Eden finds Priscilla who tells the heartbroken Priscilla that her baby was sold and escapes the house with Priscilla. Eden finds a pay phone and builds up the courage to call her Mother for the first time and finally talks to her mother after years in slavery and is last shown listening to her in tears mother cry as she looks at the distorted image of her face in the payphone reflecting on all that she has done and been through.