Gambit is a 2012 film directed by Michael Hoffman, starring Colin Firth, Cameron Diaz, Alan Rickman and Stanley Tucci. It is a remake of the 1966 film of the same name starring Shirley MacLaine and Michael Caine. This version is written by Joel and Ethan Coen. The film premiered in Great Britain on 21 November 2012; it never received a theatrical release in the US, despite originally being planned for a 12 October 2012 release, and went straight-to-DVD on 25 April 2014.[4][5]British art curator Harry Deane (Colin Firth) decides to seek revenge on his abusive boss Lord Shabandar (Alan Rickman) by conning him into buying a fake Monet ("Haystacks at Dusk"), a painting that has been missing since 1945, after being plundered by the Nazis. He teams up with a master art forger, the Major (Tom Courtenay), and travels to Alpine, Texas to find rodeo queen PJ Puznowski (Cameron Diaz,) whom he plans to recruit in his scheme. She agrees and the next day the three drive out to PJ's grandmother's mobile home out in the desert. They hang the fake Monet on the wall and take a picture with the painting in the background. The picture is to appear with an article on the rodeo queen that will be published in a magazine that is part of Shabandar's media empire.Back in London, Harry meets with Shabandar and discusses the photos of PJ and her grandmother, turning the attention to the painting. Shabandar replies that it is a reproduction, based on the fact that it was hanging on the wall of a mobile home in Texas. Harry suggests that they at least check to see if the painting is real or not, because the painting is so rarely reproduced. Shabandar reluctantly agrees, and Harry tries to find PJ to follow up on the matter. PJ offers the painting to Shabandar for 12 million pounds sterling.Shabandar introduces PJ to Martin Zaidenweber (Stanley Tucci). He tells PJ that Martin has been assigned to curate his private collection, to which PJ asks why Harry will no longer be assigned to it. Shabandar tells her that he feels that Harry is a bit of an idiot, to which Martin replies that Harry is a good man, but that he has a bad eye for art. Martin later inquires about the painting, and PJ tells him that it had been hanging in her house ever since she was a little girl.Shabandar tells PJ that his rival businessman, Akira Takagawa, has wanted revenge ever since losing to Shabandar in a 1992 auction for the first Haystacks painting. Shabandar plans to buy several television channels from him at a discount, making him the third largest cable provider in all of Asia.Harry and the Major meet with Takagawa and his men. It is revealed that the Major had painted copies for both "Dusk" and "Dawn" paintings. Harry had removed the staples on the canvas of the real "Dawn" painting and switched with its copy. Takagawa tells Harry that his payment for the real "Haystacks at Dawn" Monet, 10 million pounds, has been transferred to his Swiss bank account. Harry and the Major thank Takagawa, and head on their way. Meanwhile, while PJ goes through security, she finds the small painting that Harry had hung over his mantel. She smiles, just before boarding the plane. The end of the film shows Harry and the Major walking through the airport talking about Donald Trump's fascination with Picasso.