The Hunger Games is a 2012 American dystopian science fiction adventure film directed by Gary Ross and based on the novel of the same name by Suzanne Collins. It is the first installment in The Hunger Games film series and was produced by Nina Jacobson and Jon Kilik, with a screenplay by Ross, Collins, and Billy Ray. The film stars Jennifer Lawrence, Josh Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth, Woody Harrelson, Elizabeth Banks, Lenny Kravitz, Stanley Tucci, and Donald Sutherland.[5] The story takes place in a dystopian post-apocalyptic future in the nation of Panem, which is divided into 12 districts, where a boy and a girl from each district, between the ages of 12 and 18 must take part in The Hunger Games, a televised annual event in which the "tributes" of each district, are required to fight to the death, until there is only one survivor. Katniss Everdeen (Jennifer Lawrence) volunteers to take her younger sister's place. Joined by her district's male tribute, Peeta Mellark (Josh Hutcherson), and Katniss travels to the Capitol to train for the Hunger Games under the guidance of former victor Haymitch Abernathy (Woody Harrelson).





As punishment for a past rebellion, each of the 12 districts of the nation of Panem is forced by the victorious Capitol to annually select two tributes, one boy and one girl between the ages of 12 and 18, to fight to the death in the Hunger Games. In District 12, Katniss Everdeen volunteers after her younger sister Primrose is chosen by lot. She and the male tribute, Peeta Mellark, are escorted to the Capitol by chaperone Effie Trinket and their mentor Haymitch Abernathy, a past District 12 victor, now an alcoholic. Haymitch impresses on them the importance of gaining sponsors, as they can provide gifts of food and supplies during the Games. During a televised interview, Peeta publicly expresses his love for Katniss, which she initially takes as an attempt to earn sponsors for himself, though she later learns that he means it. While training, Katniss observes the Careers: Marvel, Glimmer, Cato, and Clove, tributes from Districts 1 and 2 who have trained for the Games from an early age.At the start of the Games, Katniss ignores Haymitch's advice and grabs supplies from the ground around the Cornucopia, a structure filled with food, weapons and other supplies where the contestants start, and narrowly escapes being killed by Clove (though Clove inadvertently saves her life by killing a District 9 boy first). Half of the tributes die in the initial melee, and only 11, including the Careers, remain after the first day. Katniss tries to stay far away from the other competitors, but Head Gamemaker Seneca Crane triggers a forest fire to drive her back towards them. She runs into the Careers, with whom Peeta has seemingly allied, and flees up a tree. When the Careers are unable to reach her, Peeta advises them to wait for her to come down.The next morning, while the Careers and Peeta sleep, Katniss notices Rue, District 11's young female tribute, hiding in an adjacent tree. Rue silently draws her attention to a nest of poisonous tracker jackers, genetically modified wasps whose venom can cause hallucinations and death. Using a knife, she cuts the branch holding the nest, causing it to fall on the Careers. Peeta, Marvel, Cato, and Clove escape, but Glimmer succumbs to the venom. Katniss is stung too, becoming disoriented and hallucinating. Peeta returns and tells her to run away.After Rue helps Katniss recover from the poison, they become friends and allies. Katniss devises a plan to destroy the cache of supplies that the Careers have been hoarding. After Katniss succeeds, Cato angrily kills the boy from District 3 assigned to guard the hoard. Katniss finds Rue caught in a trap and frees her. Marvel appears and throws a spear at Katniss which strikes Rue in the abdomen, fatally wounding her. Katniss shoots Marvel in the chest with her bow. She comforts Rue with a song and after she dies, places flowers around her body. She then holds three fingers up - a District 12 salute - as a way to honor Rue. The people of District 11 salute Katniss, then riot, prompting President Snow to warn Crane that these Games are not turning out well.Haymitch persuades Crane to change the rules to allow two winners if they are from the same district, suggesting that this will quiet the unrest. When this change is announced, Katniss searches for Peeta, finding him gravely wounded fleeing from the Careers. After she moves him to safety, they hear an announcement that what each survivor needs the most will be provided at the Cornucopia the next morning. Despite Peeta's strong opposition, Katniss leaves to get medicine for him. She is ambushed at the Cornucopia. Clove pins her to the ground and brags about Rue's death. Katniss is saved when Thresh, District 11's male tribute, kills Clove. He spares Katniss - once - for helping Rue. The medicine heals Peeta very quickly.While hunting for food, Katniss hears a cannon go off, signalling a death. She runs to find Peeta and is horrified to find he has collected lethal nightlock berries through ignorance. Peeta is fine. They discover that Foxface, District 5's female tribute, has died from eating berries she had assumed, from watching Peeta, were edible.Then Crane has wild beasts unleashed into the arena. They kill Thresh and chase Katniss and Peeta onto the roof of the Cornucopia. There they are ambushed by Cato and fight to a stalemate. Katniss aims an arrow at Cato, who has Peeta in a headlock, boasting that if Katniss shoots him, both he and Peeta will fall to their deaths. Peeta gets Katniss to shoot Cato's hand. After she does, Peeta throws Cato to the beasts below, who maul, but do not kill him. Katniss shoots Cato, ending his suffering.Katniss and Peeta think they have won, but the rule change is revoked; there can be only one victor. Peeta urges Katniss to shoot him, but she convinces him to eat nightlock berries with her. Just before they do, they are hastily named co-winners of the 74th Hunger Games.Afterward, Haymitch warns Katniss that she has made many enemies by her acts of defiance. Snow has Crane locked in a room with nightlock. As Katniss and Peeta return to District 12, Snow ponders the situation. Katniss encourages Peeta to forget what happened between them in the Games, devastating him.