Keep the Lights On is an American drama film, which premiered at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival and was released in New York City and Los Angeles on September 7, 2012 by Music Box Films.[2] Directed by Ira Sachs, and written by Sachs and Mauricio Zacharias,[3] the film stars Thure Lindhardt as Erik, a Danish filmmaker living in New York City to work on a documentary film about artist Avery Willard; while there, he enters into a loving but complicated long-term relationship with Paul (Zachary Booth), a lawyer in the publishing industry who struggles with drug addiction.[2][4] The film's cast also includes David Anzuelo, Maria Dizzia, Julianne Nicholson, Souléymane Sy Savané, Miguel Del Toro and Paprika Steen.In 1998, Erik (Thure Lindhardt), a Danish artist living in New York City, meets Paul (Zachary Booth), a lawyer, through a phone sex hotline. Clearly attracted to each other, they share an intimate moment and have sex. Erik later visits a man named Russ (Sebastian La Cause) who seems more interested in showing off his muscles to Erik than having sex. Erik sees Paul again, and tells him about how he broke up with his ex-boyfriend Paolo, who was HIV-positive. Erik confides to his friend Claire (Julianne Nicholson) on how he is happier now with Paul than he was with Paolo. Meanwhile, Paul asks Erik to keep quiet about his drug use and gets Erik high. Paul, who was closeted before meeting Erik, sees his ex-girlfriend while visiting an art gallery with Erik, who tries to persuade Paul to introduce him to her. While away from the city, Erik calls his doctor for some test results and learns that he is HIV-negative. Later, Paul throws a surprise birthday party for Erik.In 2000, Paul catches Erik talking to another man in the street. While confronting Erik about this, Paul argues with him, but they manage to get over it. Paul then briefly goes missing during a dinner with Erik and his friends, and evades Erik's questions about where he was. Erik, away from home working on his documentary, feels lonely and calls a phone sex hotline. However, he is startled when he is connected with Paul. Erik is left upset. Back in New York, Erik argues again with Paul but they manage to make up in the night. Later, Erik returns home from working on his documentary, he finds an unconscious Paul outside their apartment. Paul is sent to rehab and states that Erik ruined his life. Erik goes to a gay club and meets a painter named Igor (Miguel del Toro).In 2003, with Paul's release from rehab and Erik's success with his film, Erik assumes everything will be better. Erik's life is rocked when he learns that Paul hasn't been home while he was away for work. However, while his sister comforts him, Erik gets a call from Paul who tells him to visit him in his hotel. Paul displays erratic behavior, trying to pretend he is okay while it is clear to Erik that he hasn't improved since rehab. Erik tries to convince Paul to return home, but Paul remains at the hotel and hires a male prostitute whom he has sex with while Erik watches on. Erik later visits Russ, and the two share some drugs and presumably have sex.In 2006, after not having seen each other for about a year, Paul meets Erik at a diner, where both seem better than before. He then invites Paul to spend the night at his apartment, to which Paul agrees, only to avoid having sex before going to sleep. Erik later runs into Igor on the street, and the two have a drink at a bar. While spending time together in the countryside, Erik asks Paul how he feels about their relationship, only for Paul to turn aggressive. Paul gives Erik an ultimatum, stating that he has a few hours to decide whether they move in together, or break up. Erik decides that they should move in together, only to drive to Paul's apartment in the city in the middle of the night to tell him that he's changed his mind. He walks Paul to work and Erik admits that he still loves him, although Paul is skeptical. The two hug, and Paul tells Erik to be well.