The Oogieloves in the Big Balloon Adventure (also referred to as The Oogieloves) is a 2012 American children's musical comedy adventure film based loosely on the children's television series My Bedbugs by Alex Greene and Carol Sweeney.[3] It features the voice talents of Malerie Grady, Stephanie Renz, and Misty Miller as the three Oogieloves and also stars Toni Braxton, Cloris Leachman, Christopher Lloyd, Chazz Palminteri, Cary Elwes, and Jaime Pressly. Marketed as an "interactive film", The Oogieloves encourages the viewers in the theater to sing and dance along.[4] The film was theatrically released on August 29, 2012 by Kenn Viselman Presents and Freestyle Releasing. The film was panned by critics and it earned $1,065,907[2] on a $20 million[2] budget, making it a huge box office bomb. The film was nominated for Worst Picture and Worst Screen Ensemble at the 33rd Golden Raspberry Awards, but lost both to The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn - Part 2.[5] The film was released on DVD on February 5, 2013.The film opens with an introduction explaining the interactive nature of the movie and introducing the Oogieloves, Goobie, Zoozie, and Toofie.The Oogieloves awake to prepare a surprise birthday party for their living pillow Schluufy, with the aid of magical window Windy Window, vacuum cleaner J. Edgar, and fish Ruffy. However, J. Edgar accidentally releases the five magical balloons they bought for Schluufy, so the Oogieloves set out to retrieve them.The first balloon is found at the treehouse home of Dotty Rounder (Cloris Leachman) and her daughter Jubilee (Kylie Dakota), who is obsessed with circles. The second is found at the milkshake cafe of Marvin Milkshake (Chazz Palminteri), who has them participate in a milkshake contest for the balloon. The third balloon is found in possession of Rosalie Rosebud (Toni Braxton), a pop singer who denies her allergy to roses. The fourth balloon is by the truck of Bobbly Wobbly (Cary Elwes), a cowboy with an unusual walk. The last balloon is found on top of a windmill, where the Oogieloves retrieve it with the help of Lola and Lero Sombrero (Jaime Pressly and Christopher Lloyd), who ride a giant flying sombrero.Just before they reach home with all the balloons, the Oogieloves accidentally release them again but blow kisses to persuade them to return. They then hold the surprise party for Schluufy, who did not awake until just before their return.