Paranormal Activity 4 is a 2012 American found footage supernatural horror film, directed by Ariel Schulman and Henry Joost and written by Christopher B. Landon from a story by Chad Feehan. The film features Katie Featherston, who starred in the first film, and had cameos in the other two. The film was released in theaters and IMAX on October 17, 2012 in the United Kingdom and was released on October 18, 2012 in the United States, by Paramount Pictures. It is the fourth installment in the Paranormal Activity series, and a sequel to Paranormal Activity 2, set several years later.On October 9, 2006, Kristi Rey and her husband Daniel are killed by her demon-possessed sister Katie, who then abducts Kristi's one-year-old son, Hunter. Text states that Katie and Hunter's whereabouts remained unknown.Now 5 years later, in November 2011, Alex Nelson (Kathryn Newton) lives in suburban Henderson, Nevada with her father Doug, mother Holly, and little brother Wyatt. Alex and her boyfriend, Ben, discover their new neighbor's son, Robbie, hiding in their family tree house. The next day, Robbie's mother falls ill and is taken to the hospital, leaving Robbie, in the care of the family.Alex is skyping with Ben, when she hears the front door open. When she leaves the webcam in the room, Robbie darts past the screen. One night while Alex is sleeping, Ben's computer starts recording, and he sees Robbie getting into the bed with her. The next day, she goes to the kids' playhouse, and Wyatt starts telling her about Robbie's friend, Toby. They turn on their Xbox Kinect system, and Alex films herself with it. When Alex talks to Robbie, behind him, there's a green blur that rushes past the screen.The next day, Alex shows her dad, but he thinks it's a joke. Alex and Ben set up cameras all over the house. On night #3, Robbie and Wyatt are running wildly through the house. The next day, Alex is in the kitchen, making a sandwich, and a basketball starts dribbling down the stairs. While in her bedroom, she starts hearing strange noises and a loud bang from downstairs. When Alex investigates, she finds a trail of toys that leads to a closet. Suddenly a toy train turns on behind her and spooks Alex. She finds Robbie, who runs away from her saying, "He does not like you filming us," as a chandelier falls and almost kills her.On night #6, Alex sees many cars parked outside Robbie's house, and goes to check it out, but runs back home after being caught by a strange woman in a black gown. The next day while Wyatt is playing in the house, chairs start moving by themselves and stop him in his tracks. Wyatt pushes his bike off-screen only for it to appear to be pushed back to him by an invisible force. Alex and Ben are in the living room when they hear a very loud thud from upstairs. When they go to the boys' closet, Wyatt reveals a green symbol on his back and tells them, "I had to meet him."Alex and Ben learn the symbol is from a witches' coven, one that would unleash a demon to possess a young boy. They read further and learn that to complete the possession ritual, Wyatt would need to spill the blood of a virgin. Ben jokes with Alex about her virginity to spook her. The next day, the boys suddenly leave, and go to Robbie's house. Alex follows the boys there, where Katie (from the original film), presumably Robbie's mother, has returned from the hospital appearing well and normal.In the next scene, while Holly is in the kitchen cutting vegetables, the knife she was using vanishes into thin air. Later, Wyatt explains to Alex that Katie knew that he and Robbie were both adopted, and that Wyatt's real name is "Hunter". Katie told Wyatt his old family wants him back. The next night, Wyatt goes downstairs and argues with Toby saying, "My name's not Hunter." While Wyatt is taking a bath, Holly goes downstairs for a few minutes. When Holly answers a phone call, Wyatt gets pulled underwater by Toby. When he rises, he appears to be in a trance. Later that night, Holly gives Alex some sleeping pills, because she's been having trouble sleeping. While Alex is asleep, Wyatt makes the blanket fly off the bed, and levitates her in mid-air.On night #12, a possessed Katie is seen sneaking around, and Alex's garage door starts opening and closing. Alex hears the garage door open, so she goes to close it. It mysteriously opens again, and, when Alex goes under it, the door crashes down, locking itself, and almost killing her. During this, Katie enters the house and goes upstairs to Wyatt's room, where she tells him that she'll wait until he is "ready". The family's car turns on by itself and begins spewing exhaust, but Alex escapes by breaking into the car and crashing through the garage door. Alex attempts to show her parents the footage of this incident, but the footage has been mysteriously erased. Alex tries explaining what happened, but her parents think she's gone crazy.The next night, Doug is downstairs watching TV on the couch, and hears a creak in the kitchen. He investigates for a moment, and seconds after he shuts down his computer, the knife that had vanished falls right in between him and the camera. This convinces Doug to believe Alex, and the two go to dinner to talk about the strange events. While they are gone, Holly is violently thrown against the ceiling and drops to the floor, dying upon impact. Katie drags her body away. Ben comes over, goes inside and looks for Alex, but no one is home. He hears a bang upstairs and attempts to leave a message on Alex's laptop. Katie appears suddenly and kills Ben by snapping his neck.Alex and Doug arrive home and Doug goes next door, believing he saw Holly and Wyatt. As he goes to investigate, Alex calls Ben's phone and hears it ringing in the closet. She finds Ben's body and is suddenly knocked down by a force, presumably Toby. She flees to Katie's home, and searches for Doug but cannot find him. Instead, Alex finds Doug screaming being dragged down the hall and out of sight. She continues to search for Doug, when she hears Wyatt's voice off-screen. Suddenly, Katie runs towards the camera, shrieking demonically. Alex escapes from Katie by jumping through a window and finds Wyatt in the yard. Wyatt refuses to leave and looks behind Alex. When Alex looks up, she sees dozens of witches running towards her. As she turns around, Katie lunges at her. The camera falls to the ground and the screen cuts to black.