Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius is a 2001 American computer-animated comic science fiction film based on twelve three-minute animated shorts shown on Nickelodeon between the years 1999 and 2001, and a pilot in 1998. The film was produced by Nickelodeon Movies, O Entertainment, and DNA Productions, and distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was produced using off-the-shelf software (messiah:studio and LightWave 6) by DNA Productions. The film was released December 21, 2001.[1] It was nominated for the first Academy Award for Best Animated Feature, but lost to Shrek. It was the only animated Nickelodeon film to ever be nominated in that category until Rango was nominated in 2011 and won.The film starts off at an Air Force base somewhere in Colorado. The Air Force radar detects a UFO, and they send planes up to examine the situation. The pilots discover that it is a rocket carrying two boys and a robotic dog: Jimmy Neutron, Carl Wheezer and Goddard. Jimmy is attempting to launch a communications satellite made out of a toaster, hoping to communicate with an alien species he believes exists somewhere out in the universe, despite his parents Hugh and Judy's protest in talking to strangers.After Ms. Fowl, the school teacher, lets the classmates have show and tell at Lindbergh Elementary School, Jimmy, Carl, and their friend Sheen spot a poster for an amusement park called "Retroland." However, Jimmy's parents refuse to let him go that night because it is a school night, and as a result Jimmy is forced to go his room to think about what he has done wrong after accidentally causing a fire with one of his inventions. Unknown to anyone, the satellite is picked up near the planet Yolkus, home to an alien race called the Yolkians, who commandeer their war ships that look like a fleet of rubber chickens. King Goobot V and his assistant, Ooblar, watch a pre-recorded message from Jimmy, featuring him introducing himself and explaining about life on Earth. Jimmy, Carl and Sheen subsequently choose to sneak out and visit the park advised by Nick Dean, a popular kid.As the three are at the park, the Yolkians set a course for Earth, where they kidnap all the adults in the city, leaving fake notes on the refrigerators to tell the kids that they have gone to Florida for an "extended vacation". Coincidentally, Carl spots a shooting star (actually a Yolkian ship), so he, Jimmy and Sheen wish for no more parents so they can have fun all the time. The next morning, the kids discover that the parents have all disappeared. After hearing a message from his parents that Goddard had recorded while posing as Jimmy last night, Jimmy becomes suspicious of the fact that his parents said that they would see him in the morning despite not being there. He soon discovers what has really happened.Jimmy organizes the other children in town to build spaceships from the Retroland rides to travel to Yolkus and get their parents back. Eventually they are captured by Goobot, who tells them that the parents are to be sacrificed to their god, Poultra. He shows the kids Jimmy's video, thanking him for helping him find suitable species for their ritual, before having the children locked up in their cells.With Jimmy feeling guilty over the fact that his actions led to the Yolkans abducting the parents in the first place, his rival Cindy Vortex convinces him to stand up and think of an escape plan. After breaking out with the help of Goddard, the children (with the exception of Nick, as he turns out not so brave), in accordance with Jimmy's plan, manage to stop the parents from being sacrificed to Poultra the giant chicken.Everyone escapes aboard a Yolkian ship, but Goobot follows them in his ship at the head of the Yolkian fleet. With the exception of Goobot's ship, all of the Yolkian ships are destroyed when Jimmy baits them into flying too close to Yolkus's sun. Jimmy and Goddard then use an experimental shrink ray to grow to the size of a planet, and blow Goobot's ship into an asteroid: Goobot and Ooblar survive the explosion, but Goobot declares that they have not seen the last of him. Jimmy reconciles with his parents for not understanding strangers, as all the other kids reunite with theirs, and they make it on their way back home.In a final scene of the film, Jimmy and Carl have breakfast during which Jimmy's parents drink one of his experiments (that causes significant belching), thinking it is real soda and they all laugh out loud.