Resident Evil: Retribution is a 2012 science fiction action horror film written and directed by Paul W. S. Anderson.[6] It is the fifth installment in the Resident Evil film series based on the Capcom survival horror video game series Resident Evil, and the third to be written and directed by Anderson after the first film and the previous installment.Alice and the others on the Umbrella Corporation freighter Arcadia face an attack by a fleet of tiltrotors led by Alice's former ally, Jill Valentine. Alice is captured in the attack, while the fates of Chris Redfield, Claire Redfield and K-Mart are left ambiguous.Alice awakens in an underground facility and is interrogated by Jill. During a power failure, Alice escapes her cell and the laser grid, finding herself in a simulated Shibuya Square, Tokyo. Fighting her way out against zombies, she enters a control room and encounters Ada Wong, one of Albert Wesker's top agents. Ada explains that they no longer serve Umbrella and the power outage was staged by Wesker's hacking into the facility's computers. Wesker appears on a screen, revealing that the Red Queen now controls Umbrella. Ada explains that the facility is underwater, located in Kamchatka, Russia, that served as a former Soviet naval outpost. The facility was designed by Umbrella in manufacturing clones and created simulated outbreaks to show the effect of the T-virus. Ada and Alice plan to rendezvous with a rescue crew which is organized by Wesker, which includes Leon Kennedy, Barry Burton, and Luther West, Alice's ally who survived after the outbreak in Los Angeles. Leon's team plants explosives near the entrance of the facility, which will detonate in two hours to ensure the facility's destruction. The group plans to meet with Alice and Ada in the Raccoon City suburbia area. In a New York City simulation, Alice and Ada defeat two Axemen. Leon and his team enter a Moscow simulation, but are attacked by armed Las Plagas Undead.In the Suburban setting, Alice and Ada encounter Becky, the deaf daughter of another Alice clone who mistakes the real Alice for her mother. They also encounter the clones which consists as Alice's deceased allies, the One, Rain Ocampo and Carlos Olivera, who are sent to capture them. Ada gives Alice her smart glasses and her grappling hook so that she and Becky can find their way out and became separated. They encounter another clone of "good" Rain in Moscow simulation, who was a friend of Becky's mother and Alice gives her a weapon. She then rescues Leon's surviving crew from the barrage of Las Plagas zombies and a giant Licker. Once united, the group head towards the tunnel and reach the submarine pens in the facility exit but they are ambushed by Jill's team and Becky is captured by the Licker, and "good" Rain is killed, breaking her neck after being thrown by the Licker. Alice rescues Becky, and also kills the Licker using the grenades she found. Barry is killed in the process, while buying them enough time to ensuring for their escape. Using Leon's bombs, the facility blows up, finally destroyed and allows Leon, Luther, Alice and Becky escape.On the surface, their snow-mobile is knocked over by Jill Valentine's submarine. Jill and Rain confront the group with Ada, being held as their hostage. Jill and Alice begin fighting each other, while Rain - now also enhanced with Las Plagas, granting her superhuman power and healing, fights Leon and Luther. Rain knocks out Leon and kills Luther. Alice is able to tear the mind-controlling scarab from Jill's chest, returning her to her normal self. Realizing that they can't kill Rain, Alice shoots the ice under Rain's feet and she is dragged down by the swimming zombies from the undersea installation and killed. Alice, Ada, Becky, Leon, and Jill travel to Wesker's headquarters, the heavily barricaded and fortified White House, staffed by STARS and the U.S. military. Alice meets Wesker in the heavily-barricaded Oval Office, where he injects her with the T-virus, returning her superhuman abilities; as only Alice successfully bonded with it, she is the ultimate weapon. On the roof, Wesker explains the Red Queen is trying to wipe out humanity, and all of the remaining uninfected are in the base; it is humanity's last stand. A pull-away shows the military defending the White House alongside the remaining Umbrella Corp. soldiers against enormous hordes of T-virus abominations swarming all over the walls.