What to Expect When You're Expecting is a 2012 American romantic comedy film that follows the lives of five interconnected couples in the Atlanta area as they experience the thrills and surprises of having a baby, and realize that no matter what you plan for, life does not always deliver what is expected. It was distributed by Lionsgate, produced by Mike Medavoy, Arnold Messer and David Thwaites, co-produced by Alcon Entertainment, Phoenix Pictures, What to Expect Productions and Georgia Public, edited by Michael Berenbaum, directed by Kirk Jones from a screenplay by Shauna Cross and Heather Hach with music by Mark Mothersbaugh and based on the pregnancy guide of the same name by Heidi Murkoff.Set in Atlanta,[4] the film opens with fitness trainer Jules Baxter (Cameron Diaz) and her dance partner Evan Webber (Matthew Morrison) performing on the TV show Celebrity Dance Factor. They are crowned the winners of the show, but Jules vomits in their trophy, discovering that she is pregnant. Jules struggles when trying to balance her pregnancy with her normal active life. She has an ongoing argument with Evan over whether or not to have their son circumcised. During labor, she chooses not to have an epidural. She gives birth to a daughter they name Emerson, ending their debate. After giving birth, Jules and Evan get engaged.Photographer Holly Castillo (Jennifer Lopez) can't conceive children and decides to adopt from Ethiopia with her husband, Alex (Rodrigo Santoro). They decide to buy a new house for the baby. Holly sends Alex to hang out with the "dudes group", a group of fathers who walk around the park and support one another, which was founded by Vic Mac (Chris Rock). Alex feels even more nervous to become a father. Holly loses her job and becomes hurt when she realizes how much Alex is unprepared for a child. However, they eventually go to Ethiopia and adopt a baby boy named Kaleb.Wendy Cooper (Elizabeth Banks) runs a breast feeding boutique called The Breast Choice, and has been trying to have a baby with her husband Gary (Ben Falcone) for two years. She eventually does conceive and shares the news with Gary after taking five pregnancy tests. Having planned a magical and happy pregnancy, Wendy feels awful throughout it and, during a convention she was chosen to speak at about the miracle of childbirth, she begins to break down and bursts out into a speech about how much the process sucks. Her outburst is filmed and becomes a viral hit on YouTube, after which her boutique is flooded with customers. After many labor-inducing activities, she goes to the hospital only to find out she has to have a cesarean section, which is against her birth plan. She loses a lot of blood, but is okay and delivers a son named Theo.Ramsey Cooper (Dennis Quaid), a famous race car driver and Gary's father, is married to a younger woman named Skyler (Brooklyn Decker). During a lunch where Wendy and Gary announce her pregnancy, Ramsey and Skyler also announce they are expecting. Unlike Wendy, Skyler cruises through her pregnancy without issues. Wendy envies her and detests her ease; however, soon after Skyler gives birth to twin girls, she and Ramsey are shown struggling with the fussy babies.Rosie Brennan (Anna Kendrick), Skyler's cousin and food-truck chef, meets an old high school friend, Marco (Chace Crawford), also a food-truck chef, during a turf war between their food trucks. She believes he is a player and initially blows him off, but the reunion leads to an unexpected pregnancy after having sex that night. Worried at first, they eventually adjust to the idea of becoming parents and move in together. However, one night Rosie discovers she is bleeding and they drive to the hospital where they discover she has miscarried. Devastated, Rosie tells Marco to leave, which he does, but he makes several attempts to get back with her. Eventually, they get back together and decide to take things slowly and their story ends with them joining forces to create a food truck together.At different points in the film, certain characters meet others and we discover all the stories are linked. Ramsey is Gary's father, Gary was on Jules' weight loss program and is a regular customer of Marco's food truck, Skyler is Rosie's cousin, and Holly is Wendy and Skyler's photographer.