Wreck-It Ralph is a 2012 American 3D computer-animated fantasy-comedy film[4] produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures.[5] It is the 52nd[6][7][8] Disney animated feature film. The film was directed by Rich Moore, who has directed episodes of The Simpsons and Futurama, and the screenplay was written by Phil Johnston and Jennifer Lee from a story by Moore, Johnston, and Jim Reardon. John Lasseter served as the executive producer. The film features the voices of John C. Reilly, Sarah Silverman, Jack McBrayer, and Jane Lynch. The film tells the story of the eponymous arcade game villain who rebels against his role and dreams of becoming a hero. He travels between games in the arcade and ultimately must eliminate a dire threat that could affect the entire arcade and one that Ralph himself unintentionally started.When Litwak's Family Fun Center & Arcade closes at night, the various video game characters leave their normal in-game roles and are free to travel to other games. Wreck-It Ralph, the antagonist of the game Fix-It Felix, Jr., is ostracized by his game's characters for just doing his job, while the titular hero Felix is praised. Tired of being mistreated, Ralph announces at the game's thirtieth anniversary party that he will earn his neighbors' respect by winning a medal.Ralph learns he can obtain a medal from the first-person shooter, Hero's Duty. After failing to blend into a game session, Ralph scales the game's central beacon and obtains a medal, only to hatch a Cy-Bug, one of the game's antagonists, which can adapt to and devour other environments. Ralph and the Cy-Bug stumble into an escape pod, which is launched out of the game, and crash land in Sugar Rush, a candy-themed kart racing game.Meanwhile, with Ralph missing, his game is labelled as malfunctioning and faces being unplugged. Felix, upon learning where Ralph went from Q*Bert, ventures to Hero's Duty, teaming up with the game's heroine, Sergeant Calhoun, to retrieve Ralph and the Cy-Bug. In Sugar Rush, Ralph's medal is stolen by the glitching Vanellope Von Schweetz to buy her way into the daily races. King Candy, the ruler of Sugar Rush, forbids her from doing so due to her being a glitch. Ralph and Vanellope agree to work together by building a race kart for Vanellope to win a race and retrieve the medal.Ralph and Vanellope build a kart, and they flee to Diet Cola Mountain, an unfinished race track. Learning Vanellope can't drive, Ralph helps teach her. King Candy hacks the game's code, obtaining Ralph's medal, which he offers to him in exchange for preventing Vanellope from racing. He explains that if Vanellope won, her glitches would likely damage the game, leading to its and her destruction. A reluctant Ralph agrees, trashing Vanellope's kart. He returns to his own game, but notices Vanellope's image on the side of the Sugar Rush cabinet, realizing she was meant to be a playable character.Elsewhere, Felix and Calhoun search Sugar Rush for Ralph. Felix fears he went "Turbo", alluding to a rogue character of the same name who abandoned his own game and destroyed another out of jealousy, resulting in both being unplugged. Felix falls in love with Calhoun, but she abandons him when he reminds her of her late fiancé, who was eaten by Cy-Bugs as part of her backstory. Felix is later imprisoned in King Candy's castle, but Ralph frees him and Vanellope, rebuilding the kart. Calhoun discovers a swarm of Cy-Bug eggs underground, which hatch and start devouring the game.Vanellope participates in a race but is attacked by King Candy. Vanellope's glitch reveals he is actually Turbo, who took over Sugar Rush, displacing Vanellope as the main character. Ralph, Felix, and Calhoun evacuate the game, but Vanellope cannot leave due to her glitch. When Calhoun points out the Cy-Bugs could be destroyed by a beacon of light as per Hero's Duty, Ralph decides to make Diet Cola Mountain erupt to replicate it. Ralph is confronted by Turbo, now fused with a Cy-Bug that devoured him, and Turbo carries him away. Ralph breaks free, hits the mountain, and causes it to erupt, but Vanellope saves him using her glitch. The volcanic beacon destroys the Cy-Bugs and Turbo.Vanellope crosses the finish line, rebooting Sugar Rush and restoring her status and memory as Princess Vanellope, the main character of the game, but she still uses her glitching ability to her advantage. Ralph and Felix return home, allowing their game to be spared. Felix and Calhoun marry, while a content Ralph gains respect from his fellow characters.