Blue Caprice is a 2013 American independent drama film directed by Alexandre Moors. It recounts the story of an abandoned boy who is lured to America and drawn into the shadow of a dangerous father figure in this film inspired by the real life events that led to the 2002 Beltway sniper attacks. The film investigates the genesis of those horrific events from the point of view of the two shooters, whose distorted father-son relationship facilitated their long and bloody journey across the United States. The film stars Isaiah Washington, Tequan Richmond, Joey Lauren Adams, Tim Blake Nelson and Leo Fitzpatrick.[2]The movie opens with Lee Malvo separating from his mother in Antigua. His mother has to leave him at home due to her job requirements. In subsequent days, as a lone teenager, Malvo comes in contact of John Muhammad. Muhammad is living with his three children - one daughter and two sons. After spending some time together Muhammad and Malvo move to Tacoma, Washington in US. Muhammad, along with Malvo, starts living there with his girlfriend Angela (Cassandra Freeman). Muhammad starts introducing Malvo as his son. Muhammad subsequently meets his old time friend Ray (Tim Blake Nelson) while going for a jog with Malvo. Ray introduces Malvo to guns. Malvo turns out to be naturally good at marksmanship. One day Muhammad tries to contact his children in Maryland but is unsuccessful due to restraining order. Frustrated by this, Muhammad comes home and has a spat with Angela over some petty issue. Angela subsequently throws both the men out of her house. Muhammad and Malvo move in with Ray and his family. Ray lives with his wife (Joey Lauren Adams) and toddler son. Malvo discovers a cache of arms in Ray's basement. Gradually Muhammad brainwashes an impressionable Malvo into committing murders. Malvo commits his first murder by shooting a neighbor (Maya Woods) point-blank in the head. Muhammad instigates Malvo further to commit more murders in order to pay back the favor of bringing Malvo to US. Malvo commits his next murder by shooting a pub owner (Bruce Kirkpatrick) in back and subsequently robbing him. With the robbed money Muhammad and Malvo buy a Caprice Classic. Muhammad subsequently teaches Malvo to drive. Muhammad also modifies the car trunk so as to make a rectangular slit in the rear which is later used to shoot a sniper rifle from. John Muhammad and Lee Malvo subsequently conduct a siege of terror on the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. They conduct series of random shootings in public places. They use a rifle fired from the trunk of a blue Chevrolet Caprice. One night while they were parked in a no-parking spot, the local police department catches up on them and subsequently the FBI is shown as taking over the investigation. After 5 months, Malvo is lodged in Graymore State Prison, Virginia. He is visited by a female lawyer (Linda Powell) who tries to question him about the motive of all those random killings. Malvo remains stubborn and asks back, "Where is my father?" The movie closes with Aspen Hill City Police escorting Malvo back to the prison cell.