Blue Ruin is a 2013 American thriller film written and directed by Jeremy Saulnier. The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival as part of the Directors' Fortnight section on May 17, 2013,[4] where it won the FIPRESCI Prize.[5] Saulnier funded production on the film through a successful Kickstarter campaign, which MTV.com called "the perfect example of what crowdfunding can accomplish."[6][7] The film was nominated for the John Cassavetes Award at the 2015 Independent Spirit Awards.[8]Dwight Evans, a beach vagrant, lives out of his car and scavenges for food and money. A policewoman tells him that Wade Cleland, the man who murdered Dwight's parents, is to be released from prison. Dwight returns to his hometown in Virginia and watches the Clelands collect Wade from prison. Despite failing to steal a gun, Dwight follows Wade to a club restroom and, after a fight, fatally stabs him. Realizing he dropped his car keys in the club, Dwight steals the Clelands' limousine; as he drives away, he discovers a teenage boy, William Cleland, in the back and lets him go.After cleaning himself up, Dwight visits his sister, Sam, for the first time in years and tells her he has killed Wade. Sam is shocked but glad. As the killing has gone unreported on the news, Dwight surmises that the Clelands have decided to seek revenge without police involvement. Sam flees her home with her daughters and Dwight waits in the house for the Clelands' attack. The Clelands arrive in the car Dwight left outside the club. Dwight escapes the attackers and runs over one of the Clelands, Teddy, in his car; he places the unconscious Teddy in the trunk. Before Dwight drives away, one of the attackers shoots him in the thigh with a crossbow.After attempting surgery on himself, Dwight has the wound treated at a hospital and returns to Sam's house to clean up the mess. He tracks down an old high school friend, Ben, who lends him a rifle. On Ben's land, Dwight interrogates Teddy at gunpoint. Teddy tells him that Wade was not his father's killer; it was Wade's now-deceased father, in revenge for Dwight's father having an affair with Wade Sr.'s wife. Teddy wrestles Dwight's rifle from him, but Ben shoots him dead from a concealed position. To keep Ben from further involvement, Dwight removes the battery from Ben's car.Dwight goes to the Cleland house and finds it empty. He searches it for guns, dumps them in a lake, and waits to ambush the Clelands. He leaves a message on the house answering machine asking them to leave Sam out of the dispute. Kris Cleland and her remaining children, Hope and Carl, return and listen to Dwight's message; when it becomes clear that the Clelands intend to kill Sam, Dwight shoots Carl to death and holds up the women. William enters through another door and shoots Dwight with a shotgun. Dwight, severely wounded, asks William to leave with his car and tells him they are half-brothers. After William leaves, Hope attempts to attack Dwight; Kris Cleland reaches for a TEC-9 hidden under a recliner and fires at Dwight, but she misses and instead kills Hope. Dwight kills Kris but is shot. A postcard Dwight sent days earlier arrives at Sam's house.