C.O.G. is an American comedy-drama film directed and written by Kyle Patrick Alvarez, and starring Jonathan Groff. The film is based on a David Sedaris short story from his book of collected essays, Naked. It marks the first time one of Sedaris' stories has been adapted for film. It co-stars Denis O'Hare, Casey Wilson, Dean Stockwell, Troian Bellisario, and Corey Stoll.Samuel "David" Sedaris (Jonathan Groff) graduates from Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut and takes a job as at an apple farm in Oregon. After enduring three days of annoying people on the bus, David arrives at the farm and attempts to call his family only for them not to pick up. David tells them not to call him and that he'll be going off the radar for a while. David arrives at the farm where an elderly farm owner Hobbs (Dean Stockwell) gives him a job in the fields and finds out that he'll be working with a girl called Jennifer the following week. Hobbs tells David that the apples are about to shrivel and that he has four weeks to get them off the branches. Hobbs then takes David to the barn where he meets a Spanish guy Pedro who he works with in the fields and explains that Jennifer forced him to take the bus after a guy she went to California with a guy called Rob who only had room for her in his car. Hobbs catches David slacking off and tells him to go into town to get a tank of gas. David gets into town where he meets a christian named Jon (Denis O'Hare) who annoys him with a C.O.G brochure and continuously offers to help him with his tank of gas. After miles of walking, David arrives back at the farm where Hobbs tells him he cannot take anymore breaks to which David replies "I got it".The next day David is out on the field feeding the cows and talks to Pedro about how stupid they are. Then after telling him how he should've been over the other side of the field, he looks over on his left and sees Jennifer (Troian Bellisario) standing in front of him. After Jennifer finds out that everyone thinks his name is Samuel, David is excited and tells her that he can't wait to work with her before looking behind her and seeing Rob, the guy she went to California with. At the local diner, a disgusted David badmouths Jennifer for lying about working with him and having been more interested in being with Rob than working on the farm with him. David realises that Jennifer's not staying and calls her a slut for having sex with Rob in her car. Jennifer tries to tell David that the people in Oregon are trash and that they won't miss him whether or not he avoids them but David tells her that he fits in just fine. After Jennifer tells him to get over it, David tells her that the exact moment her relationship with Rob ends, she will come running to him in tears because she's never gonna find anyone as good as him. The two then hug and Jennifer leaves in Rob's car.The next day Pedro leaves to go to Los Angeles to find better work. Thinking that David won't stay much longer now that Jennifer has left, he tells Hobbs that he wants to stay a bit longer. David attempts to calls his family again only to fail a second time. David then gets moved off the farm to the factory down the road where his co-worker Debbie (Dale Dickey) refuses to chat with him. David then befriends Brian (Corey Stoll), the forklift operator who everyone calles "Curly". He invites David over to his mother's house. After realising that he wants him as his homosexual partner, David escapes and leaves the farm altogether. Lying to Hobbs that he got a new job offer back in Connecticut, Jon takes David under his wing and goes to church with him. After going off at him for breaking a jade clock and trying to say that god isn't real, Martha's husband Paul tells Jon that he and David need to find someplace else to live. Martha tells them there's an abandoned beauty salon they can crash at.Jon tells David that someone has been trying to reach him but he won't return his calls. After leaving church, Martha tells David that his mother called after he and Jon were evicted and that she was worried about him. A confused David tells Martha to get her to call him back. Jon goes to a meeting and leaves David to experiment with his tools. Later that night, Curly finds David and re attempts to make him his homosexual partner only to be forced to leave in confusion and having no idea what David is talking about. Jon finds an exhausted David and the two go to church where David tells god that he wishes to marry a beautiful woman (presumably Jennifer) and have kids with her. Touched by this, Jon takes David outside where they hand out C.O.G brochures and explain that it means "Child of God". They then go to the markets where they fail to sell their clocks. Jon is enraged when a customer says she already has a clock and the markets are deserted. After telling the story about a guy who lost his life in the war when is squad, an upset Jon accuses David of stabbing him in the back and using him to get the money to buy a bus ticket back to Connecticut. Jon casts David away, gives him money to get as far away from Oregon as possible and tells him he doesn't wanna see him again. David asks Jon where he's supposed to go but Jon tells him that he doesn't care (the dvd version shows David telling John he's going to San Francisco to win Jennifer back). Jon tells David there's a bus station back the way they came and David walks off as Jon's truck fades away.