Clark: A Gonzomentary is an American 2013 gonzo journalism-styled mockumentary written, directed and produced by Daniel D.W.[1]The story begins with b-roll of Clark with voice over of an interview with Clark talking about himself in the third person and his artistic creativity and integrity. This is refuted immediately with an interview with Clark's art manager, J.C. who states that he's not been able to get work out of Clark for months other than crude sketches of penises. J.C. reports that he supports the artist financially and expresses his frustration and that his plan is to feed Clark drugs so that he can control him and get him to produce. This is followed by the director of "Clark: The Webseries," Daniel, who explains how difficult it was to film the webseries.The next scene shows J.C. introducing Daniel to Clark, who is sitting naked in a bathtub with empty bottles of beer and alcohol. Clark is resistant and belittling to Daniel's intrusiveness, while Daniel is obviously uncomfortable with the scene, J.C. insists that filming Clark in his current state is "where the real art is happening." Clark begins to become agitated and has a rambling fit about his father. They move to another room where Clark is asked to explain his art but is shown that he can't, rambling incoherently and is interrupted by J.C. who gives him alcohol and oxycontin. This relationship between J.C. and Clark is reinforced consistently throughout the movie, while showing a mixture of the webseries' episodes in a linear timeline mixed with behind-the-scenes interviews in a non-linear timeline.The story introduces the fictitious production company, Exodus Films' executive producer Jazmin, a fundamentalist Christian, who mentions that the material isn't family friendly enough. She quickly is led away from her current lifestyle by J.C. and Clark to follow her true dream of being a mime managed by J.C.. In a silent film style episode, J.C. tells Clark that he's quitting as his manager to focus on "Jazmime's" career and that he is kicking Clark out of the house. J.C. explains on camera that he wasn't sure what Daniel was doing with the silent film style with music from Vivaldi's The Four Seasons, claiming Daniel had become "artsy-fartsy," a claim that Daniel responds by saying he had no choice but to make a silent episode because Clark wouldn't read any lines anymore or speak in English for days, we then see footage of Clark speaking gibberish. Clark is shown struggling with homelessness while J.C. realizes that managing a mime isn't going to be profitable, so he gives her a newspaper classified article implying she should get a job in the porn industry. J.C. goes to search for Clark and finds him 5 feet outside of his door, where Clark shows J.C. his new creation, penis sculptures made out of trash.Another character, Tito, is introduced as J.C.'s drug dealer, who he calls to get "fuel" to keep Clark awake all night to produce art for an art show that is scheduled for the next day. Tito arrives with two large bags of cocaine and asks J.C. if he can inject heroin in their apartment. J.C. complies and Tito overdoses. When discovered that he is dead Clark and J.C. go through his pockets to find his phone in a plan to call his dealer disguising themselves as Tito to get free cocaine. Clark suggests that they cut off Tito's face and he'll wear it when he confronts the dealer. J.C. then explains in an interview that things turned really dark after that and that he is worried about Daniel. Clark meets with Tito's dealer, a young kid, while wearing Tito's removed face. He shoots the dealer and steals his drugs which introduces the third act of the movie, where it is revealed as Daniel's bad LSD trip that is causing confusion.Clark, Daniel and J.C. cycle through a time loop in Daniel's mind which alters the original story each time. J.C.'s character gradually becomes similar to Hunter S. Thompson and Clark begins killing puppets in an imaginary world. This is inter-spliced with the reality that Clark and J.C. are trying to help Daniel from his bad trip. It is then revealed that they locked Daniel in a room in the basement that they call the "deprivation tank" for a few days. When they find Daniel he is still under the effects of multiple hallucinogens that J.C. and Clark had been secretly giving him for weeks, and they take him to the hospital. The last scene shows Clark being extremely pleased with himself until the interviewer asks him about his influence by his father. This causes Clark to freak out and destroy the four-foot penis sculpture he had been working on for the majority of the story.