Erased (released as The Expatriate outside of the US) is a 2012 Canadian-Belgian thriller film directed by Philipp Stölzl, starring Aaron Eckhart and Olga Kurylenko. The story centers on Ben Logan (Aaron Eckhart) an ex-CIA agent and Amy (Liana Liberato), his estranged daughter who are forced on the run when his employers erase all records of his existence, and mark them both for termination as part of a wide-reaching international conspiracy. It was released in the US on 17 May 2013, following its acquisition by RaDiUS-TWC, the multiplatform distribution label of The Weinstein Company. It was retitled Erased for the US market.[2]Ben Logan, an American single parent who has recently moved with his estranged daughter to Belgium, works for a multinational technology corporation called Halgate Group. When one of his co-workers discovers that a patent has been apparently misfiled, Logan brings it to the attention of his boss, Derek Kohler. Shortly afterward, his entire office building is emptied and no records exist to show that he was ever an employee. Confused, Logan attempts to prove his employment by accessing bank records, but he is kidnapped at gunpoint by a coworker.Logan kills the coworker in front of his stunned daughter, who demands to know his background; Logan cryptically alludes to "getting people in and out of difficult situations". In his investigation, Logan discovers that the rest of his coworkers have all been killed, and he goes into hiding, aided by his daughter's contacts among undocumented immigrants. Eventually, Logan uncovers a wide-ranging conspiracy involving illegal arms sales to African insurgents and a shell company, not a Halgate division, used by the CIA to harness his engineering skills. Logan reveals that he is an ex-CIA operative, and he is hunted down by his former CIA coworkers, led by Anna Brandt, a former lover. When Brandt turns and attempts to protect his daughter, she is killed; Logan goes after his corrupt former employers and blows up the CEO of the company with a bomb hidden in a suitcase.