Evil Dead is a 2013 American supernatural horror film co-written and directed by Fede Alvarez in his directorial debut, produced by Bruce Campbell, Robert Tapert, and Sam Raimi, and co-written by Rodo Sayagues. The film was shot in New Zealand outside of Auckland, with filming lasting a month.[3] It is the fourth installment in the Evil Dead franchise. The film serves as a soft reboot of the original 1981 film and as a continuation to the original film trilogy.In the woods, several men capture a frightened girl and tie her up in a cellar. It is then revealed that she is possessed, and her father immolates her and shoots her in the head.Some time later, David and his girlfriend Natalie arrive at a cabin in the woods, where the pair meet up with his younger sister Mia and his friends Eric and Olivia. The group plans to stay in the cabin while Mia overcomes her addiction to heroin. It is later revealed that David moved to a city years before, leaving Mia to care for their dying mother. The group discover the cellar, littered with rotting animal corpses, a shotgun, and a book called the Naturom Demonto.Eric, having some knowledge of witchcraft, begins studying the book. Despite written warnings, he reads aloud an incantation and awakens a malevolent force that finds Mia standing outside alone. Mia begins seeing things, and she asks the group to leave. They refuse, believing that she is simply experiencing the effects of withdrawal. Mia steals the car keys and drives away from the cabin, but a mysterious girl causes her to crash in a swamp. Emerging from the mud, the demonic girl chases Mia through the woods. Mia stumbles into a circular opening to a thorn bush and becomes entangled by possessed vines. The girl, a demonic form of Mia, emits a black tar-like thorn vine from her mouth that slithers inside and possesses Mia. David and Olivia find Mia and take her back to the cabin. David finds his dog killed and dumped under the shed, and goes to confront Mia, who is said to be in the shower, about it. In the bathroom, he sees her scalding herself in the shower. David tries to drive her to a hospital, but heavy rains flood the only road back. Meanwhile, Eric becomes more and more convinced that the book is the cause of all that.That night, the possessed Mia comes into the living room with a shotgun and shoots David as a strong wind blows through the cabin, and Mia warns the others that they are all going to die tonight, after which she passes out. David instructs Olivia to get the gun away from Mia, but before she can, Mia wakes up and overpowers her, then projectile vomits blood all over her face. Olivia manages to shove Mia off, sending her tumbling down into the cellar where she is locked in. Olivia goes to the bathroom to clean herself and to get a sedative for Mia, and is terrified when she sees her reflection in the mirror that of a demon. The mirror explodes, and Olivia tries to rush back to the others, but becomes frozen and possessed in the process. Eric finds her cutting into her cheek with a mirror shard behind the shower curtain. Olivia attacks and wounds Eric, who grabs a broken piece of the sink and bludgeons her to death. In the shed, David nurses Eric, who says to have released "something evil". Meanwhile, Mia lures Natalie into the cellar, where she bites her hand. Natalie tries to attack Mia with a box cutter, but Mia takes it from her. She uses the blade to split her own tongue in half, before planting a bloody kiss on Natalie's mouth. David appears and helps Natalie get out, before chaining up the trapdoor.Eric explains to David that, according to the Naturom Demonto, the Taker of Souls must claim five souls in order to unleash the Abomination. In the kitchen, while cleaning the bite wound, Natalie becomes convinced that her arm is infected and proceeds to amputate it with an electric knife. David does his best to patch up her wounded arm, while Eric continues to explain that Mia must be "purified" either by live burial, bodily dismemberment, or burning. As they debate, the possessed Natalie attacks the pair. David shoots her other arm off, purifying but bleeding her to death.David plans to burn down the cabin with Mia in it. However, as Mia starts singing a song from their childhood, he has a change of mind and decides to bury her instead. He digs a grave, then enters the cellar to subdue Mia, who attempts to drown him. Eric intervenes and knocks Mia out, but not before being fatally stabbed. David proceeds to sedate and bury Mia, unearthing and crudely defibrillating her afterwards, which causes the demon to be exorcized and heals her. The siblings reconcile. As David enters the cabin to retrieve the car keys, a possessed Eric stabs him in the neck with barb wire cutters. David locks Mia outside and shoots a gasoline can, killing Eric and himself.With five souls now claimed, the Abomination arises and blood rains from the sky. As Mia battles the Abomination, she is forced to tear her own hand off after it is trapped under a car. She then halves the Abomination with a chainsaw. Its corpse sinks into the ground and the blood-rain stops. Mia escapes into the woods and wanders off into the distance. Unbeknownst to her, the Naturom Demonto is still intact.In a post-credits scene, a silhouetted Ash Williams says "Groovy" and looks at the camera before it cuts to black.