Fruitvale Station is a 2013 American biographical drama film written and directed by Ryan Coogler. It is Coogler's first feature-length film and is based on the events leading to the death of Oscar Grant, a young man who was killed in 2009 by BART police officer Johannes Mehserle at the Fruitvale district station of the Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) system in Oakland.The film depicts the story of Oscar Grant III, a 22-year-old from Hayward, California, and his experiences on the last day of his life, before he was fatally shot by BART Police in the early morning hours of New Year's Day 2009. The movie begins with the actual footage of Oscar Grant and his friends being detained by the BART Police at the Fruitvale BART station in Oakland on January 1, 2009 at 2:15am right before the killing.The film shows scenes of him and his girlfriend arguing about Grant's recent infidelity. It later shows Grant unsuccessfully attempting to get his job back at the grocery store. He briefly considers selling some marijuana but in the end decides to dump the stash. Grant later attends a birthday party for his mother and tells her afterward that he will take the BART train to see fireworks and other New Year's festivities in San Francisco.On the return train, Katie, a customer at the grocery store where Grant used to work, recognizes Grant and calls out his name. A former inmate, from when Grant was in prison (shown in an earlier flashback), then recognizes Grant and attempts to assault him, starting a disturbance that leads the BART Police to intervene. Amid the chaos, Grant's girlfriend calls and asks where he is; he assures her he is fine. In the end, after Grant is restrained on the station platform, a BART Police officer shoots him in the back. Grant is rushed to a hospital but later dies.In the post-credits scene, title cards show that Grant's death sparked a series of protests and riots across the city and that the incident was recorded by several witnesses, either by cell phone or video camera. The BART Police officers who were involved were fired and the one who shot Grant was later tried and found guilty of involuntary manslaughter, claiming he mistook his gun for his Taser, and served an 11-month sentence. There is also footage of a gathering of people celebrating Grant's life on New Year's Day 2013 with the real-life, older Tatiana (Grant's daughter) standing among them.