Girl Most Likely is a 2012 American comedy film directed by Shari Springer Berman and Robert Pulcini. Based on a screenplay by Michelle Morgan, the film stars Kristen Wiig as a playwright who stages a suicide in an attempt to win back her ex, only to wind up in the custody of her gambling-addict mother, played by Annette Bening. Matt Dillon, Christopher Fitzgerald, Natasha Lyonne, and Darren Criss co-star.Imogene Duncan (Kristen Wiig) was once a promising playwright who now works in a low-paying magazine job in New York City. After her affluent boyfriend leaves her and she is fired from her magazine gig, she stages a suicide attempt in an effort to get her ex's attention and is accidentally discovered by her friend Dara. Held in the hospital on a 5150 (involuntary psychiatric hold), she is eventually released into her estranged mother's (Annette Bening) care where she is taken to her childhood home in New Jersey.Shortly after returning she hears a conversation between her mother and her new boyfriend, George Bousche, and learns that her father never died, but instead left the family to pursue a PhD. After learning that her father wrote a book, she goes to the local library and steals it. She discovers from the back cover that he lives in New York City and convinces her mother's boarder, Lee (Darren Criss), to take her there, but is forced to return after she is barred access from her apartment and her friend, Dara, refuses to let her stay in her home.To pay Lee back for driving her to the city, Imogene goes to see him perform in his Backstreet Boys tribute band. Afterwards they talk about Imogene's failed career as a playwright. Years ago, after she won a prestigious grant, Imogene failed to write an actual play and now believes she cannot write. Lee accidentally discovered her old plays while living in her room and believes she is talented and should attempt to write again. They sleep together and the following morning she, Lee and her brother, Ralph, head back to the city to go to Dara's book launch party.The launch goes poorly as no one is particularly happy to see her. Her brother Ralph is nearly arrested and is brought to the party by the police. After they leave the party, Ralph takes them to their father's house where Ralph reveals that he knew his father was alive the entire time. Imogene and Ralph have dinner with their wealthy father and his new wife where he expresses no regret over his decision to leave them. After their father offers Imogene money to help fix her life she leaves him and returns home to her mother. After Imogene and her mother discuss her father an assassin arrives looking for Bousche and threatens to kill the family. He is prevented from doing so by Imogene, who dons her brother's human exo-skeleton suit and attacks him.Ultimately Imogene writes a play based on her experiences called Exo-life starring Julia Stiles, which receives a standing ovation.