The Green Inferno is a 2013 American adventure horror film directed by Eli Roth. The film was inspired by and is a homage to Italian cannibal films of the late 1970s and early '80s "cannibal boom", including Cannibal Holocaust (1980), which features a film-within-a-film titled The Green Inferno. The film follows a group of activists who are forced to fight for survival when they are captured by a cannibalistic tribe.Justine, a college freshman, becomes interested in a social activism group led by Alejandro and his girlfriend Kara. The group plans a trip to the Amazon rainforest to stop a company from logging and obliterating ancient native tribes there; the goal is to film the logging crews with cell phones and stream footage to raise awareness. Justine, whose father is an attorney for the United Nations, suggests she could bring attention to the issue through her father.The operation is funded by a drug dealer named Carlos, who takes the group of students to Peru via plane. They arrive in the Amazon and head to a logging site where they begin their protest, chaining themselves to bulldozers while filming the loggers cutting down trees. A private militia arrives, and the protest receives viral attention on the internet when Justine is nearly killed by one of the militia officers. The group is arrested, but Carlos pays the police to let them go. As the plane leaves, it crashes into the forest, killing Carlos.Justine, Alejandro, Kara, and protest members Jonah, Lars, Amy, Samantha, and Daniel survive and search for a GPS phone to call for help. Suddenly, numerous young men painted in red come out of the bushes and kill Kara. The rest of the group are tranquilized and taken to a small village where they are imprisoned in a bamboo cage. The female elder of the tribe ritually dismembers, beheads, and eats Jonah. Samantha attempts to escape, but she is tranquilized and the group finds out that they are being watched.The next morning, the tribe's male leader orders Justine, Samantha, and Amy out of the cage. The girls are tested with a sharpened instrument, and Justine is revealed to be a virgin. She is taken away, and prepared for a genital mutilation ceremony. When Samantha and Amy are brought back to the cage, they distract the watchman with a ringing cell phone and Samantha escapes. The next day, Justine is returned with paint marks on her, and the tribe brings the prisoners meat. After finishing her meal, Amy realizes the meat came from Samantha, who was recaptured and dismembered. She smashes her bowl and uses a shard to cut her throat. Lars stuffs marijuana down Amy's throat, hoping to get the tribe high when they cook her. His plan works, and Justine and Daniel escape, but Alejandro tranquilizes Lars and both are left behind. Lars is eaten alive by the tribe.Justine and Daniel return to the site of the plane crash and find a phone in Kara's pocket, but are recaptured by the tribe shortly after. Justine is prepared for her ceremony while Daniel is tied to a pole, his limbs broken, and fed to ants. Logging machinery attracts the tribe to the jungle; the distraction allows Justine to escape with the help of a child sympathizer. Daniel begs for Justine to kill him, and the child sympathizer blows a white powder into Daniel's face, knocking him out before slitting his throat. Alejandro is abandoned by Justine in the cage. Two tribe members chase her down, but lose her when she crosses a river with a black jaguar on the other side of it. However, the big cat doesn't harm her, and she runs into the jungle. Justine encounters the same private militia that had captured her earlier as they slaughter the natives, and the male tribal leader is killed. Justine uses Kara's phone to pretend to film the fight, stopping the militia from firing on the natives. Justine is taken home to safety. In New York, Justine lies to her father, telling him she was the only survivor of the crash and that the tribe was friendly to her.In a mid-credits scene, Alejandro's sister Lucia tells Justine that she has found him on a satellite GPS image, showing a surviving Alejandro painted black.