In a World... is a 2013 American comedy film written, directed and co-produced by Lake Bell.Sam Sotto is a Hollywood actor who is known as "king of voice-overs". He has done the narration and voice-overs to many theatrical film trailers and films, as well as recently published an autobiography about his life and is about to receive a lifetime achievement award upon turning 60. His daughter, Carol Solomon, is a struggling vocal coach who has always been overshadowed by her father. Sam kicks Carol out of his house so that he can live with his much younger 30-year-old girlfriend Jamie (who is a year younger than Carol). Carol goes to live with her older sister Dani and her husband Moe in their small apartment.An upcoming film series, The Amazon Games, plans to bring back the famous late Don LaFontaine "In a world..." line, and the trailer voice-over is highly sought after. Sam bows out so that his friend and heir-apparent, Gustav Warner, can assume the role. Gustav fails to show up when he comes down with laryngitis, so studio engineer Louis asks Carol to provide a temp track. It gains the attention of the executive producer, who now wants Carol for the job. Carol also gets other work offers. She neglects to tell her self-absorbed father about her newfound success. Gustav and Sam feel entitled and are dismissive of the unknown woman who "stole" the job from them.Due to her intrusive habit of mimicking random people's voices and accents as well as recording guests for her voice archive, Carol is barred from the hotel where Dani works as the concierge. Undeterred, Carol asks Dani to interview and record a flirtatious Irishman who is a guest at the hotel. Exasperated and flattered by the attention, Dani agrees.Carol joins Sam and Jamie at a party Gustav throws in his mansion, and wanders around admiring the artwork. Gustav flirts with her, and Carol ends up staying the night. Dani is working late again, although she is supposed to meet Moe for dinner. While waiting he listens to the interview Dani conducted with the hotel guest at Carol's behest, wherein his wife pretends to be single, and he is shocked. When she arrives home, he is listening to the tape again and again, and quietly walks out.Rumors spread quickly about Carol and Gustav. Gustav boasts to Sam of his night with some party-crasher, and when Gustav learns she is the woman in competition for the job, he decides to keep pursuing her, still not fully realizing who she is.Sam and Jamie host a meal for Sam's daughters. It comes out that Carol is the mystery woman in the running for the coveted job. Sam is indignant, furious at Gustav, and dismissive of Carol, causing her to leave angry. Sam vows to compete for the job himself.Dani is distraught about her husband, and Carol secretly records her anguish, sending the message to Moe to help win him back.Competition for the job heats up. All three must send recordings for the studio to decide among. Carol is ready to drop out, but Louis champions her cause, also explaining that he likes her. Carol admits she likes him, too. They work together to produce the audition recording, then party together afterwards. At the end of the night, Louis finally kisses her.Though Carol is still angry at her father, Moe insists that she and Dani go to the Golden Trailer Awards, where Sam is due to receive a lifetime achievement award. There the trailer for The Amazon Games is revealed; Carol got the job and is elated. Sam storms off. Jamie berates him and threatens to leave him if he does not grow up and show support for his daughters. During his acceptance speech, Sam is magnanimous in victory, dedicating the award to his daughters. In the ladies room, Carol encounters the executive producer, Katherine Huling, who bluntly tells Carol that she was not the best person for the job, but was chosen for the greater meaning of having a woman in that role.In the final scene, Carol goes back to her work as a voice coach, helping low self-esteem, high-pitched, squeaky-voiced women to speak less like a "baby doll" or "sexy baby" and be taken more seriously as mature women, using her voice-over on The Amazon Games trailer as their inspiration.