Lovelace is a 2013 American biographical drama film about porn actress Linda Boreman, better known as Linda Lovelace, star of Deep Throat, a seminal 1972 film at the forefront of the Golden Age of Porn. Lovelace covers her life from age 20 to 32.[8] Directed by Rob Epstein and Jeffrey Friedman, the film was written by Andy Bellin and stars Amanda Seyfried, Peter Sarsgaard, Sharon Stone, Adam Brody, James Franco, Chloë Sevigny, and Juno Temple. The film had its world premiere on January 22, 2013, at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival and opened in a U.S. limited release on August 9, 2013.[9]In 1970, 20-year-old Linda Lovelace (Amanda Seyfried) is living with her overbearing parents in Davie, Florida. While out dancing one night with her best friend, Patsy (Juno Temple), she attracts the attention of Chuck Traynor (Peter Sarsgaard), and the two soon develop a serious relationship. He is much older than her and begins teaching her how to perform sexual acts, which she is initially thrilled about. After breaking a curfew one night, Linda is slapped by her mother (Sharon Stone), so she decides to move out and live with Chuck, later marrying him. During a party, Linda watches one of Chuck's homemade porno films for the first time and tells him that good girls like her do not do stuff like that.Six months later, Linda bails Chuck out of jail for soliciting prostitution, which he refuses to talk about with her. Desperate for money, he later persuades Linda to become a pornographic film actress and she soon begins working on the film Deep Throat, where she first uses her stage name, Linda Lovelace. The movie becomes a huge hit, raking in over $30,000 at the box office in its first week. After it becomes a worldwide phenomenon, Linda is interviewed by a variety of print and radio reporters and becomes the subject of late night television humor, much to the disgrace of her estranged parents. Her life is seen as exciting and glamorous: she poses nude for photoshoots and attends swanky parties weekly. During a private screening in Los Angeles, Hugh Hefner (James Franco) convinces Linda that she has the potential to be more than a porn actress.In the second version of events, Chuck's violent nature is gradually exposed and Linda's life is revealed not to be as perfect as it seems. He chokes Linda during sex and refuses to stop when she asks, claiming it to be "passion", and forces her into prostitution at gunpoint. Linda visits her parents to ask if she can move back for a while after she reveals that Chuck has been hitting her, but her mom says no, tells her to go home and be a good wife, since she must have done something to deserve his abuse. It appears that Linda no longer loves him like earlier but has no other choice. After Chuck learns that Linda has been discussing a new salary with the movie's director, Gerard Damiano (Hank Azaria) without telling him, he punishes her by making her shower in freezing water.When Deep Throat becomes a hit, Chuck tries to persuade Linda to do another porn film but she refuses. He then takes her to a party and forces Linda to participate in a gang bang at a hotel, again at gunpoint, for the money instead. She attempts to escape from him that night but he catches her and ends up sleeping on top of her so she cannot try again during the night. The following day, she secretly meets up with Anthony Romano (Chris Noth) and tells him she wants out of the porno business, revealing the facial bruises and cuts inflicted by Chuck. Disgusted, Romano has her checked into a private hotel while he and his bodyguards whip Chuck for abusing Linda and for the $25,000 he owes.Six years later, following her divorce to Chuck, Linda marries Larry Marchiano, moves to Long Island and has a son by him. She later takes a polygraph test before publishing her autobiography Ordeal, which details years of Chuck physically and sexually abusing her, as well as taking all of her earnings. Linda appears on Donahue, with her distraught parents breaking down in tears while watching her on TV. A few days later, the Marchianos travel to Florida for Linda to reconcile with her parents.Closing captions reveal that while Deep Throat made over $600 million worldwide, Linda only earned $1,250 because Chuck controlled the money like he controlled everything. Ordeal went on to sell out three printings and, for 20 years, Linda spoke out against pornography and domestic violence. Chuck later went on to marry Marilyn Chambers, another porn actress. Linda died at age 53 from injuries sustained in a car accident in 2002 and Chuck suffered a fatal heart attack three months later.