Movie 43 is a 2013 American black comedy film co-directed and produced by Peter Farrelly, and written by Rocky Russo and Jeremy Sosenko among others. The film features fourteen different storylines, each one by a different director, including Elizabeth Banks, Steven Brill, Steve Carr, Rusty Cundieff, James Duffy, Griffin Dunne, Patrik Forsberg, James Gunn, Bob Odenkirk, Brett Ratner, Will Graham, and Jonathan van Tulleken. It stars an ensemble cast that is led by Elizabeth Banks, Kristen Bell, Halle Berry, Gerard Butler, Leslie Bibb, Kate Bosworth, Josh Duhamel, Anna Faris, Richard Gere, Terrence Howard, Hugh Jackman, Johnny Knoxville, Justin Long, Christopher Mintz-Plasse, Chloë Grace Moretz, Liev Schreiber, Seann William Scott, Emma Stone, Jason Sudeikis, Uma Thurman, Naomi Watts, and Kate Winslet. Julianne Moore, Tony Shalhoub, and Anton Yelchin are also featured in cut scenes released on DVD and Blu-ray.Movie 43 is a series of different sketches containing different scenes and scenarios.The Pitch[edit]
Produced and directed by Peter Farrelly and written by Rocky Russo, Jeremy Sosenko, and Ricky Blitt
The film is composed of multiple comedy shorts presented through an overarching segment titled "The Pitch", in which Charlie Wessler (Dennis Quaid), a mad screenwriter, is attempting to pitch a script to film executive Griffin Schraeder (Greg Kinnear). After revealing several of the stories in his script, Wessler becomes agitated when Schraeder dismisses his outrageous ideas, and he pulls a gun on him and forces him to listen to multiple other stories before making Schraeder consult his manager, Bob Mone (Common), to purchase the film. When they do so, Mone's condescending, humiliating attitude toward Schraeder angers him to the point that, after agreeing to make the film "the biggest film since Howard the Duck", he confronts Mone in the parking lot with a gun and tries to make him perform fellatio on the security guard (Will Sasso) (Wessler had gotten on the lot by doing the same thing) and kill him if he does not make the film. Wessler tries to calm Schraeder down with more story ideas to no avail, but Mone pulls out a gun and shoots Schraeder to death. The segment ends with it being revealed that it is being shot by a camera crew as part of the movie, leading into the final segments.
Cast

Dennis Quaid as Charlie Wessler
Greg Kinnear as Griffin Schraeder
Common as Bob Mone
Charlie Saxton as Jay
Will Sasso as Jerry
Odessa Rae as Danita
Seth MacFarlane as himself
Mike Meldman as himself
Alternative version (The Thread)[edit]
Directed by Steven Brill and written by Rocky Russo and Jeremy Sosenko
The structure of the film released in some countries, like the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, differs. Instead of a pitch, the films are connected by a group of three teenagers searching for the most banned film in the world, Movie 43, which will ultimately lead to the destruction of civilization.[5] Calvin Cutler (Mark L. Young) and his friend J.J. (Adam Cagley) make a video in the style of MTV's Jackass and upload it on YouTube where it instantly reaches over 1,000,000 views. This turns out to be an April Fool's prank from Calvin's younger brother Baxter (Devin Eash), who cloned YouTube and hyper-inflated the views while working on his science project. Calvin and J.J. attempt to get revenge. They tell Baxter of a film that's so dangerous it will cause the annihilation of the world. The movie is known as Movie 43. While J.J. and Baxter look for Movie 43 on Google, Calvin retrieves Baxter's laptop and loads it with viruses from porn sites, and masturbates to a strip tease video on the porn sites in a bathroom. Baxter finds hundreds of results for Movie 43 on a website referred to by him as a dark corner of the Internet. They find the sketches starting from the 43rd search on the list of results. As he and J.J. keep watching videos, they are interrupted by a man known as Vrankovich (Fisher Stevens) and a group of Chinese mobsters (Tim Chou and James Hsu) who are tempted to find Movie 43, even going as far as to take J.J.'s classmate Stevie Schraeder (Nate Hartley), film executive Griffin Schraeder's oldest son, hostage. Vrankovich warns them that if they find Movie 43, civilization will be left to ruins. They ignore his claims and keep searching. They eventually find the real, the one and only Movie 43, which turns out to involve Baxter as a profane commando who leads a group of recruits to survive after the world has ended. As Calvin finishes ruining Baxter's laptop, their mother (Beth Littleford) enters, wearing the same shirt and shorts that the woman in the strip tease video wore, causing Calvin to flip out after realizing that he had masturbated to a video of his mother. He also has visions, and finds semen from his erect crotch on his hand causing him to stare at his hand in shock and horror. Afterward, a deadly earthquake rumbles and mankind is lost. However, a few years later the only survivor, a crippled Calvin, finds Baxter's laptop still working despite viral infections. He watches the last remaining skits on the laptop. This version of the film was released in the U.S. as part of the Blu-ray Disc of Movie 43 as an unrated alternate cut of the film.
Cast

Mark L. Young as Calvin Cutler
Adam Cagley as J.J.
Devin Eash as Baxter Cutler
Fisher Stevens as Vrankovich/Minotaur
Tim Chou as Chinese Gangster #1
James Hsu as Chinese Gangster #2
Nate Hartley as Stevie Schraeder
Liz Carey as Sitara
Beth Littleford as Mrs. Cutler
Segments[edit]




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (August 2013) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

The Catch[edit]
Produced and directed by Peter Farrelly and written by Bill O'Malley and Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko
Beth (Kate Winslet) is a single businesswoman who goes on a blind date with Davis (Hugh Jackman), the city's most eligible bachelor. When the two arrive together at a restaurant, Beth is shocked when he removes his scarf, revealing a pair of testicles dangling from his neck. Over dinner it confuses her that Davis fails to acknowledge his anatomical abnormality, and that nobody seems to be surprised by it. When two friends of Davis (Roy Jenkins and Katie Finneran) come by, one of them convinces him to give Beth a kiss. Davis agrees, but when he kisses her, his neck-testicles are dangling near Beth's mouth, causing her to scream and budge out of the kiss.
Cast

Hugh Jackman as Davis
Kate Winslet as Beth
Roy Jenkins as Ray
Rocky Russo as Waiter Jake
Anna Madigan as Abby
Julie Claire as Pam
Katie Finneran as Angie
Homeschooled[edit]
Directed by Will Graham and written by Will Graham & Jack Kukoda
Having recently moved, Sean (Alex Cranmer) and Clare (Julie Ann Emery) have coffee with their new neighbors. The neighbors, Robert (Liev Schreiber) and Samantha (Naomi Watts) have a teenage son, Kevin (Jeremy Allen White), whom they have home-schooled. Sean and Clare begin inquiring about the homeschooling, and the numerous manners in which Robert and Samantha have replicated a full high school experience within their home, going as far as hazing, bullying, and giving out detentions, are revealed. They believe the experience should be as awkward as possible, like "real high school". This includes throwing parties that exclude Kevin, Samantha instigating Kevin's "first kiss" and Robert revealing romantic feelings for Kevin. Visibly disturbed, the neighbors end up meeting Kevin, who says he is going out and gives them the impression that all is fine: until he reveals a doll made of a mop with Samantha's face on it, referring to the doll as his girlfriend.
Cast

Jeremy Allen White as Kevin Miller
Liev Schreiber as Robert Miller
Naomi Watts as Samantha Miller
Alex Cranmer as Sean
Julie Ann Emery as Clare
The Proposition[edit]
Directed by Steve Carr and written by Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko
Julie (Anna Faris) and Doug (Chris Pratt) have been in a relationship for a year. When he attempts to propose to her, she reveals to him that she is a coprophiliac, and asks him to defecate on her in the bedroom. Urged by his best friend Larry (J.B. Smoove) and others to go along with it, he eats a large meal and drinks a bottle of laxative prior to the event. Wanting foreplay, Julie is angered when Doug wants to finish, and she runs into the street. Chasing after her, he is then hit by a car and graphically evacuates his bowels everywhere. She cradles him and apologizes; covered and surrounded by his excrement on the road, she exclaims that it is the "most beautiful thing" she has ever seen and accepts his marriage proposal. (In the end credits, Julie and Doug are mistakenly renamed Vanessa and Jason by Rocky Russo, Jeremy Sosenko, Steve Carr, Peter Farrelly, and Charles B. Wessler).
Cast

Anna Faris as Julie (aka Vanessa)
Chris Pratt as Doug (aka Jason)
J. B. Smoove as Larry
Jarrad Paul as Bill
Maria Arcé as Christine
Aaron LaPlante as Friend
Veronica[edit]
Directed by Griffin Dunne and written by Matthew Alec Portenoy
Neil (Kieran Culkin) is working a night shift at a local grocery store. His ex-girlfriend, Veronica (Emma Stone), comes through his line and the two begin arguing, which soon turns into sexual discussion and flirtation as they lament over their relationship; unbeknownst to them, Neil's intercom microphone broadcasts the entire explicit conversation throughout the store, where various elderly people and vagrants tune in. After she leaves in tears, the customers agree to cover his shift while he goes after her.
Cast

Kieran Culkin as Neil
Emma Stone as Veronica
Arthur French as Old man
Brooke Davis as Tall lady
Josh Shuman as Short man
iBabe[edit]
Directed by Steven Brill and written by Claes Kjellstrom & Jonas Wittenmark & Tobias Carlson and Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko
A developing company is having a meeting in their headquarters over their newly released product, the "iBabe", which is a life-sized, realistic replica of a nude woman which functions as an MP3 player. The boss (Richard Gere) listens to his various workers (Kate Bosworth, Aasif Mandvi and Jack McBrayer) argue over the placement of a fan that was built into the genital region of the iBabe, which is dismembering the penises of teenage boys who attempt to have sex with them. The board members then agree to strongly emphasize the dangers of the product via its new commercials.
Cast

Richard Gere as Boss
Kate Bosworth as Arlene
Jack McBrayer as Brian
Aasif Mandvi as Robert
Darby Lynn Totten as Woman
Marc Ambrose as Chappy
Cathy Cliften as iBabe #1
Cherina Monteniques Scott as iBabe #2
Zach Lasry as Boy
Superhero Speed Dating[edit]
Co-edited and directed by James Duffy and written by Will Carlough
Robin (Justin Long) and his cohort Batman (Jason Sudeikis) are in Gotham City at a speed dating establishment seeking out a bomb threat by their nemesis, Penguin (John Hodgman). While Robin attempts to connect with various women through speed dating including Lois Lane (Uma Thurman) and Supergirl (Kristen Bell), Batman encounters his ex Wonder Woman (Leslie Bibb) and attempts to stop Penguin from detonating Supergirl, who later turns out to be the Riddler (Will Carlough) in disguise, which Batman already knew and was screwing with Robin, who kissed "her" moments before unveiling.
Cast

Justin Long as Robin
Jason Sudeikis as Batman
Uma Thurman as Lois Lane
Bobby Cannavale as Superman
Kristen Bell as Supergirl
John Hodgman as The Penguin
Leslie Bibb as Wonder Woman
Will Carlough as Riddler
Katrina Bowden as Stacey
Machine Kids[edit]
Written, co-edited, and directed by Jonathan van Tulleken
A faux-Public service announcement about children stuck in machines and how adults' criticism of these particular machines affect the feelings of the children stuck inside the machines. This commercial was paid for by the "Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Inside Machines".Middleschool Date[edit]
Directed by Elizabeth Banks and written by Elizabeth Wright Shapiro
Nathan (Jimmy Bennett) and Amanda (Chloë Grace Moretz) are watching television after school at Nathan's house as their first "middle school" date. When they begin to kiss, his older brother Mikey (Christopher Mintz-Plasse) enters the living room and makes fun of them. Amanda then discovers she is menstruating and tries to hide it, and when Nathan sees blood on her pants, he panics and believes her to be bleeding to death, causing a debacle, which would later have Nathan and Mikey's father Steve (Patrick Warburton) and Amanda's father (Matt Walsh) involved. Amanda calls them out on their stupidity and feels embarrassed to know that she's getting her first period in front of them and they don't know what to do about it. When she leaves with her father, Nathan yells that the process of keeping the lining of her internal organs intact by inserting his erect phallus into her vagina is much too complicated and Mikey agrees. Steve cheers them up by farting in front of them. As Mikey goes to the bathroom, Nathan and Steve watch a game on television, which has a very graphic Tampax commercial in which a girl gets eaten by a shark due to her menstruating.
Cast

Christopher Mintz-Plasse as Mikey
Chloë Grace Moretz as Amanda
Jimmy Bennett as Nathan
Patrick Warburton as Steve (Nathan and Mikey's father)
Matt Walsh as Amanda's father
Tampax[edit]
Directed by Patrik Forsberg and written by Patrik Forsberg & Olle Sarri
Another faux-commercial involving two women who go swimming in the sea. As the women submerge into the water, a great shark suddenly appears and eats one of the women. A tagline appears, reading: "Tampax. Now Leak-Proof"Happy Birthday[edit]
Directed by Brett Ratner and written by Jacob Fleisher
Pete (Johnny Knoxville) captures a leprechaun (Gerard Butler) for his roommate Brian (Seann William Scott) as a birthday present. After tying the leprechaun up in the basement, they demand he give them a pot of gold. The obscene leprechaun threatens that his brother is coming to save him. When he arrives, Brian and Pete are shot at but ultimately kill both leprechauns. At the end of the segment, Pete reveals he has also caught a fairy (Esti Ginzburg) who performs fellatio for gold coins.
Cast

Gerard Butler as Leprechaun #1, Leprechaun #2
Johnny Knoxville as Pete
Seann William Scott as Brian
Esti Ginzburg as Storybook fairy
Truth or Dare[edit]
Produced and directed by Peter Farrelly and written by Greg Pritikin
Donald (Stephen Merchant) and Emily (Halle Berry) are on a date together at a Mexican restaurant. Tired of typical first dates, Emily challenges Donald to a game of truth or dare. She dares him to grab a man’s buttocks, and he follows with daring her to blow out the birthday candles on a blind boy’s cake. The game rapidly escalates to extremes, in which both of them get plastic surgery and tattoos, and humiliate themselves. When Donald and Emily arrive back at Emily's apartment, they praise their date. Donald tries to kiss her, but she rejects him, claiming she's not attracted to Asian men (which he was surgically altered to resemble). It is revealed that she was joking and invites him to have sex with her as she shows him her enlarged breasts.
Cast

Halle Berry as Emily
Stephen Merchant as Donald
Sayed Badreya as Large man
Snooki as Herself
Caryl West as Waitress
Ricki Noel Lander as Nurse Elizabeth
Paloma Felisberto as Bachelorette party girl
Jasper Grey as Patron
Benny Harris as Blanco the bartender
Zen Gesner as Stripper
Victory’s Glory[edit]
Directed by Rusty Cundieff and written by Rocky Russo & Jeremy Sosenko
Set in 1959, Coach Jackson (Terrence Howard) is lecturing his all-black basketball team before their first game against an all-white team. Worried about losing the game, the timid players are lectured by the coach about their superiority in the sport over their white counterparts, which he expresses vulgarly. When the game ensues, the all-white team loses miserably yet rejoices in a single point they earn.
Cast

Terrence Howard as Coach Jackson
Aaron Jennings as Anthony
Corey Brewer as Wallace
Jared Dudley as Moses
Larry Sanders as Bishop
Jay Ellis as Lucious
Brian Flaccus as White guy #1
Brett Davern as White guy #2
Evan Dumouchel as White guy #3
Sean Rosales as White guy #4
Logan Holladay as White guy #5
Mandy Kowalski as Cheerleader
Eric Stuart as Narrator
Beezel[edit]
Written and directed by James Gunn
Played mid-credits, Amy (Elizabeth Banks) worries that her boyfriend Anson’s (Josh Duhamel) cat, Beezel (an animated cartoon), is coming between their relationship. Beezel seems to detest Amy and anyone who comes between him and Anson, but Anson only sees Beezel as innocent. One day, Amy witnesses Beezel masturbating to summer vacation photos of Anson in a swimsuit. Beezel attacks her and violently urinates on her. Anson still finds his pet innocent but Amy threatens to leave if he doesn't get rid of Beezel. Caring more about his relationship, Anson agrees to find a new home for him. That night, from a closet, Beezel tearfully watches the couple make love (whilst sodomizing himself with a hairbrush and dry humping a stuffed teddy bear). The next day when it comes time to take Beezel away, he is nowhere to be found. Amy goes outside to look. Beezel then runs her over with a truck and attempts to shoot her to death with a shotgun, but she chases him into the street and begins beating him with a shovel, which is witnessed by a group of children attending a birthday party at a neighboring house. When Anson approaches to see what is happening, Amy tries to explain Beezel’s motives. Beezel acts innocent and Anson sides with his cat. The children of the party then attack and murder Amy for beating up Beezel, stabbing her with plastic forks. Anson grabs Beezel, as Beezel again fantasizes about French kissing his owner.
Cast

Elizabeth Banks as Amy
Josh Duhamel as Anson
Emily Alyn Lind as Birthday girl
Michelle Gunn as Mommy
Christina Linhardt as Party clown
Find Our Daughter[edit]
Written and directed by Bob Odenkirk
In this segment that was cut from the film, Maude (Julianne Moore) and George (Tony Shalhoub) are looking for their breast-flashing daughter Susie (Jordanna Taylor) with the help of the private eye (Bob Odenkirk), who is behind the camera with only one clue which is a small video that features their daughter. The scene was included as an extra on the DVD and Blu-ray release.
Cast

Julianne Moore as Maude
Tony Shalhoub as George
Jordanna Taylor as Susie
Bob Odenkirk as Private Investigator
The Apprentice[edit]
Written and directed by Steve Baker and Damon Escott
The second segment that was cut from the film follows Wayne (Anton Yelchin), a shy apprentice mortician who is secretly a necrophiliac at the hospital he works at. One night, a body he's having sex with is brought back to life from the pressure of his thrusts. His supervisor Bob (Shane Jacobson) suddenly walks in and mistakenly believes that Wayne has performed a life-saving operation of some kind. The staff at the hospital and the media congratulate him while a news reporter asks what he did to save her. Unable to conjure an answer, one of the cops on scene tells everyone else they can just watch the security tapes to find out. As they rush to the security room, Wayne is given a personal thanks by the girl (Maria Volk) he revived, upon which he responds with an awkward "Your Welcome".[6][7][8] Unlike Find Our Daughter, this segment was not included in the DVD or Blu-ray release[9] and instead premiered at the 2014 LA Comedy Festival.[10]
Cast

Anton Yelchin as Wayne
Shane Jacobson as Bob
Maria Volk as Girl
Christopher Kirby as Cop
