Pacific Rim is a 2013 American science fiction monster film directed by Guillermo del Toro and starring Charlie Hunnam, Idris Elba, Rinko Kikuchi, Charlie Day, Burn Gorman, Robert Kazinsky, Max Martini and Ron Perlman. The screenplay was written by Travis Beacham and del Toro from a story by Beacham. The film is set in the future, when Earth is at war with the Kaiju,[a] colossal monsters which have emerged from an interdimensional portal on the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. To combat the monsters, humanity unites to create the Jaegers,[b] gigantic humanoid mechas each controlled by at least two pilots, whose minds are joined by a mental link. Focusing on the war's later days, the story follows Raleigh Becket, a washed-up Jaeger pilot called out of retirement and teamed with rookie pilot Mako Mori as part of a last-ditch effort to defeat the Kaiju.In 2013, huge alien monsters called Kaijus emerge from an interdimensional portal called "The Breach" at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. Over the course of three years, the Kaiju wreak havoc upon coastal cities along the Ring of Fire, such as San Francisco, San José del Cabo, Sydney, Manila and Hong Kong. Humanity responds by constructing massive robotic machines called Jaegers, to combat the alien threat. Each Jaeger is piloted by two or more people, who are connected by a neural bridge in a process called "drifting" to share the mental stress of piloting the machine.In 2020, Gipsy Danger, piloted by brothers Raleigh and Yancy Beckett, defends Anchorage from a Kaiju codenamed Knifehead. They both engage in combat, with Gipsy gaining the upper hand and defeating the Kaiju. Unbeknownst to them, the Kaiju is still alive. The Kaiju ambushes them, critically damages Gipsy and throws Yancy out of the cockpit, killing him. Raleigh manages to pilot Gipsy alone. He then activates the remaining plasma cannon, killing Knifehead. Traumatised by Yancy’s death, Raleigh quits the Jaeger Program. In 2025, the world governments decide to end funding for the continuous construction of Jaegers, in favor of building massive coastal walls, as the Kaijus are growing more powerful, their attacks more frequent and Jaegers are being destroyed faster than they are built. The remaining Jaegers are relocated to Hong Kong under the command of Marshal Stacker Pentecost, who plans to destroy The Breach using a nuclear weapon.Pentecost tracks down Raleigh at a wall construction site to persuade him to rejoin the program. Traveling to the Hong Kong base, the Shatterdome, Raleigh is introduced to Mako Mori, director of the Jaeger restoration program and Pentecost’s adoptive daughter. Four Jaegers remain in operation – the refurbished Gipsy Danger, the Russian Cherno Alpha, the Chinese Crimson Typhoon, and the Australian Striker Eureka that will carry the bomb, and piloted by father and son Herc and Chuck Hansen.To find a new co-pilot, Raleigh participates in tryouts, assuming Mako is "drift-compatible", despite Pentecost's protests. During their first test, Raleigh is distracted by the memory of Yancy’s death. Mako, in turn, is lost in the memory of the Kaiju attack on Tokyo that orphaned her, and nearly fires Gipsy's plasma cannon. Mako is promptly relieved of piloting duties, and Raleigh confronts Pentecost and tells him that he is being overprotective of her.Pentecost consults Kaiju experts Newton Geiszler and Herman Gottlieb. Hermann claims that the Breach will stabilize and the Kaiju will increase in number, but it will allow the assault to succeed, while Newton suggests drifting with a Kaiju’s brain to learn more about them. Newton goes ahead with his plan despite Herman's protests and discovers that the Kaiju are bioweapons grown by alien colonists who plans on wiping out humanity. With Pentecost's permission, Newton searches for black market dealer Hannibal Chau to obtain a fresher Kaiju brain to drift with. However, he soon figures out that since drifting is a two-way link, the Kaiju hive mind gained access to his knowledge just as he did theirs. Soon after, two new Kaijus, Leatherback and Otachi, emerge simultaneously to find Newton.All Jaegers except Gipsy Danger are dispatched to intervene. Otachi destroys Crimson Typhoon, while Leatherback destroys Cherno Alpha and paralyzes Striker Eureka with an EMP blast. Out of options, Pentecost reluctantly allows Mako and Raleigh to pilot Gipsy Danger. Gipsy successfully kills Leatherback and Otachi. Examining Otachi's body, Newton and Hannibal find out that it is pregnant. The infant Kaiju bursts out and devours Hannibal but soon dies from being strangled by its own umbilical cord. Newton and Hermann drift with the infant’s brain, discovering that The Breach can only open in the presence of a Kaiju's DNA.As Herc was injured during the previous fight, Pentecost pilots Striker Eureka with Chuck. Along with Gipsy Danger, they approach The Breach. Three Kaijus emerge from The Breach to defend it, one being the largest ever encountered. The Jaegers kill one Kaiju and injure the others, but Striker is immobilized by the largest Kaiju. Pentecost and Chuck decide to detonate the bomb, as they were easily overwhelmed, depending on Gipsy's nuclear reactor to seal The Breach. After the explosion leaves the largest Kaiju alive, Gipsy kills it and rides its corpse into The Breach. Raleigh overloads the reactor and ejects Mako and himself using escape pods. The reactor explodes, killing several alien creatures and destroying The Breach. Herc, now the Marshal, orders to stop the war clock, indicating mankind's victory.Raleigh and Mako's escape pods surface in the Pacific Ocean, where they embrace as rescue helicopters arrive. In a mid-credits scene, Hannibal cuts his way out of the Kaiju infant, and looks for his lost shoe.