The Pretty One is a 2013 comedy drama film directed and written by Jenée LaMarque. The film stars Zoe Kazan, Jake Johnson, Ron Livingston, Sterling Beaumon and John Carroll Lynch.[3]Laurel and Audrey are identical twins. Although they look the same on the outside, their personalities are very different. When they get in a severe car crash together, Laurel is taken to the hospital and is informed that her sister has died. Suffering from post-traumatic amnesia, Laurel doesn't remember being who she is at first. The morning of her sister's funeral, she remembers who she is but decides to keep everyone thinking that it was she who had died and not Audrey. She then flies back to the city where Audrey used to live. There, she meets her sister's tenant Basel (Jake Johnson) who is confused about her sudden change of personality, because Audrey was never nice to him before. Living her life posing as her sister, she learns that Audrey had a boyfriend who is married, but broke up with him before the accident. Laurel continues to spend more time with Basel and Audrey's best friend Claudia, who is suspicious about Audrey's change of behavior. Laurel begins a relationship with Basel, and they fall in love. When she finally feels that she is adapting to her new life, she accidentally tells her boss that Charles is her ex-boyfriend, not knowing that Charles is actually her boss's husband, and gets fired immediately. Shortly after this, Basel proposes to Laurel saying that he loved her since he first met her. Laurel, unable to continue deceiving everyone, decides to tell Basel the truth, but he is devastated and breaks up with her.Laurel returns to her father's home and he is shocked after she tells him the truth. They have another funeral for Audrey, since the first one was for Laurel. After this, Laurel realizes how much people cared for both her and her sister, helping her come to terms with her own insecurities about being the less fortunate one of the pair. Laurel returns to the city as herself and looks for Basel who still loves her. In the end he forgives her, they share a kiss and start making plans for the future.