A Single Shot is a 2013 US American crime thriller film directed by David M. Rosenthal and written by Matthew F. Jones, based on his own novel of the same name. The film stars Sam Rockwell, William H. Macy, Ted Levine, Kelly Reilly and Jason Isaacs.John Moon's wife recently took their son and left. Before his father died, his dad was unable to pay the mortgage on the farm, and it was sold. John is depressed and an emotional wreck. He lives in poverty in rural West Virginia, feeding himself by hunting deer. While stalking a deer with a shotgun, he accidentally shoots and kills a young woman. He then finds a box containing $100,000 in the abandoned van where she was hiding. He hides the girl's body in a shipping container. During the following days, he attempts to reconcile with his wife. He contacts a local attorney to try to negotiate for his wife and son's return home and leaves the attorney several hundred dollars, drawing the attorneys' attention. After John visits his wife in town at the diner, a stranger resents his glance at him and threatens John.John visits his son at his wife's apartment and interrupts the babysitter having sex with a recently released convict who has returned home. Returning to his trailer, someone shoots and kills his dog. John suspects the ex-con has something to do with his dog's death. He enters the ex-con's motel room and is interrupted by the ex-con's return. He hides in the louvered closet. The stranger from outside the diner arrives at the hotel room and asks the ex-con if he's gotten the money back. The ex-con tells him that the girl who had the money has died and the stranger is furious. John sees him slit the ex-con's throat. The ex-con falls into the closet. He sees John but is unable to talk before he dies. John avoids detection and goes home. He finds someone has tossed his trailer, apparently looking for the money. The dead girl's body is on his bed with a note. His wife shows up and wants to come inside and get her clothing, but John refuses. John visits the attorney and threatens him with a pistol, trying to force him to reveal what he knows. All he learns is that his wife was concerned about where John got the money and wants to talk to John.John returns to his trailer. A friendly local girl brings him something to eat, and while they are eating outside, the radio in the trailer starts playing loudly. John goes inside to investigate, carrying a M1911 .45 caliber pistol. He hears the girl scream outside, and returns to find her held captive by the stranger. John is forced to discard his pistol and knife. The stranger asks John where the money is. John says he buried it nearby. The stranger tells him to go get it, but first cuts off John's right index finger and thumb, to be sure he can't use a weapon. John goes to his truck and gets a scoped rifle. Despite his wounds, he successfully kills the stranger. He takes the girl to town and returns to the trailer and a shed outside, which contains a freezer and the dead girl's body. He drags her body up the hill and digs a hole to bury her. Weakened by loss of blood, he's unable to get out of the hole.