Super Buddies is a 2013 Disney direct-to-DVD family film, directed by Robert Vince and produced by Anna McRoberts. It is the 7th, and latest, installment in the Air Buddies franchise. The Buddies acquire rings that give them super powers, now they must use them to stop a villain. The movie was released by Walt Disney Studios Home Entertainment on DVD, Blu-ray, and as a movie download on August 27, 2013.The Buddies Budderball, Buddha, Rosebud, B-Dawg, and Mudbud five golden retriever puppies find five magical rings from the planet Inspiron. Each ring has given the Buddies unique super powers. Budderball gets super strength, Buddha gets psychic abilities, Rosebud gets super speed, B-Dawg gets super elasticity, and Mudbud gets invisibility. Together, the Buddies must use the rings responsibly with the help of Captain Canine/Captain Megasis in order to stop a power hungry extraterrestrial warlord named Commander Drex, who wants to take the rings for his own and full dictatorship of Inspiron. The Buddies soon learn that you don't need to have super powers to become a superhero.In a farm in Fernfield, Bartleby is celebrating his twelfth birthday with his grandpa. Budderball soon discovers a orange toy ring in his food, meaning that they now have all of the five toy rings of Inspiron. His grandpa then gives him a birthday present, issue 1 of the Captain Canine and Kid courageous comic books. Sam, Billy, Alice and Pete then arrive, dressed up as super heroes, with the other Buddies (also dressed up as super heroes) and the birthday party begins with a treasure hunt. As the Buddies hunt for the treasure they discover the area where the real rings of Inspiron crashed in 1985. The rings bond with the puppies and the Buddies wear them. Bartleby reads the comic book to his friends which explains the story of Commander Drex, Captain Megasis, how he turned into a dog on Earth and how the rings ended up on Earth. Rumour has it that the person who made the comic books based them on a real life event.The Buddies then begin noticing that the rings have given them powers; Super strength, physic abilities, super speed, super elasticity and invisibility. The puppies, which Budderball dubbed "Super buddies", decided to use these new powers to help Fernfield and start by saving an ungrateful cat from a tree, but accidentally damaging sheriff Dan's police car. Jack and Captain Canine detect that the rings have been activated but believe it's a false alarm and need to double check it. Drex and his assistant, MONK-E, also detect the signal coming from Earth and prepare to head there. At night, the Buddies discover the candy store is being robbed by two robbers and use their powers to stop the criminals before sheriff Dan arrives and arrests them (after falsely arresting the owner and leaving him in handcuffs). A news crew arrives but don't believe what the owner says about the five "super puppies" while Sheriff Dan decided to take as much candy as possible. Jack realises this isn't a false alarm and that the signal is coming from Fernfield so Canine heads out to get them.The next day, a building is on fire and a little girl is trapped inside. The Buddies go in to save her but Captain Canine comes in and rescues them. He then explains that these rings and the events in the comics are all real. Unfortunately, he cannot take the rings as they have already bonded with the puppies so he begins to train them how to protect themselves and each other. Drex lands in the farm and takes the shape of a pig, mistaking it for a human, much to the shock of Marvin. The "pig" steals a car and causes mayhem in town but sheriff Dan defeats him and takes him to jail. The kids discover the spaceship and see their puppies on the news, realising that the comics are real. They rush to find Sheriff Dan but Drex swaps bodies with him and he takes the kids hostage, demanding to know where the Buddies are.Back at the farm, MONK-E decides to go out exploring while the super buddies face Drex. The kids, who are locked in the barn, look through the comics looking for a solution to this crisis. Working together, the Buddies defeat Drex however he soon begins to get the upper hand and kills captain Canine. He gives an ultimatum to the kids; surrender the rings or die. Drex then causes a meteor to head for Fernfield and Marvin tries to stop it. Bartleby hands over the plastic toy rings and Drex flies of in his warship. MONK-E decided to abandon his evil master but the meteor is already to close to Earth. Upon realising the rings are fake, Drex crashes into the meteor blowing it up. Jack reveals that using the full power of the rings captain Canine can be revived and the Buddies manage to bring him back to life. Without Drex, Captain Canine changes back to his original form, Megasis. A ship from Inspiron, which detected the rings activation and went out to find it, arrives with the princess of Inspiron aboard, who can finally marry Megasis after so long. They congratulate the kids, Jack and the Buddies on their success and takes the rings back to Inspiron with them.The next day, outside the town hall, Jack announces his new comic book series to a crowd which he calls "Super Buddies" and his new partner, Bartleby Livingston. He reads the comic out loud to the audience. The film ends with a picture, from one of the new comics, of the Super Buddies standing on a building, ready for action.