A Teacher is a 2013 independent drama film about a female high school teacher's illicit sexual relationship with a male student that turns from infatuation into obsession. This is the first feature film directed by Hannah Fidell.[2] Principal photography for the film took place in Austin, Texas.[3] The film had its premiere at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival on January 20, 2013.[4] The film was released on video on demand on August 20, 2013, prior to being released in a limited release on September 6, 2013, in the United States.[5][6]The film starts with Diana Watts (Lindsay Burdge) jogging, and driving to school, where she teaches English, to a class full of students. After school, Watts goes to the bar with her roommate and best friend Sophia (Jennifer Prediger). At the bar, Sophia finds out Diana is texting someone named Eric, she asks who he is and how she met him, and Diana replies she met him at school. Later, Watts is seen waiting in her car, a car pulls up, it is revealed to be Eric (Will Brittain). He goes in Diana's car, where they have sex.Diana and Eric talk once class ends, they then kiss, Watts becomes nervous that someone will catch them, she is then seen being very happy. Watts then goes to the teachers lounge, where teachers are discussing about students who got caught smoking weed in the parking lot of the school. They then invite Diana to join them for a drink after school, she declines since her brother is going to be in town. She meets with her brother Hunter (Jonny Mars) to discuss about her mother. Since that she has been avoiding discussing the topic. At the restaurant they discuss their mother, and how she is doing and how he is worried for her. She becomes overwhelmed and leaves.Diana and Eric are seen together again, Diana says she doesn't want to leave, Eric suggests she stay the night, however she declines. She tells him, she is the happiest she has been in a long time. Back at Diana's home, she and Sophia discuss their plans for Thanksgiving she tells Diana, she's going to introduce her to Rich (Cody Haltom) and Dan (Matthew Genitempo). Diana then gets a text message from Eric to send a picture so he won't miss her as much, while Sophia is talking, Diana takes a suggestive picture and sends it to Eric. Once the holidays are over Diana returns to school, during her lunch break, Jessica (Julie Phillips) a fellow teacher, discuss how a topless photo of a student has been going around the school. Diana becomes nervous and realizes that the photo she sent Eric could easily spread like that one, once they finish talking she immediately goes to Eric and asks him to remove the photo, and he does. Diana becomes jealous of Eric when she finds out he has a date to the Sadie Hawkins dance which she will be chaperoning.Later, Diana and Eric meet at his brother Greg's house where they have sex. They then drive to a ranch together. The next morning at the ranch, they have sex again; the ranch manager James (Don Hampton) interrupts them, but doesn't see anything. Diana becomes nervous that James is going to call Eric's father and that she could lose her job if he finds out. Diana then says she thinks they should put their relationship on hold for a while. She goes off to the porch to be alone, Eric joins her and attempts to be close she reacts with shocking ferocity yelling "What's the matter with you?"However, upon returning home she obsessively scours his Facebook photos.The next school day, Diana asks Eric if they could talk after class. Diana tells Eric that she misses him, and invites him to come over that night. During the conversation, Jessica comes into the classroom randomly catching them talking. Diana reacts with a professional air portraying it as a school matter.That night he arrives at Diana's house. They begin having sex. She is unstable, desperate and frantic. He is confused and concerned. She stops, pulls away and puts on a T-shirt. She leans against the wall going through a series of intense emotions from sobbing to laughing. She verbalizes that what they are doing is wrong though seems to find it funny. Diana's roommate returns unexpectedly. Eric prepares to flee from being caught, Diana no longer cares if they are caught. Diana begs him to stay. He is now freaked out by Diana's behavior and leaves right in front of her roommate.Diana then leaves the house and follows Eric to his house, she sits in her car and calls their house phone, she gets a hold of Eric's Father (Chris Doubek) who complains about how late she is calling. She does not say who she is. She says it is an emergency. He says he will get him but then comes back and says that Eric is busy. She then sneaks up to Eric's bedroom window, he comes outside and is angry. He looks at her with hard eyes and uses a rough tone of voice. She tells him they could work through this. He says, "What are you talking about?" Eric's father comes outside and is walking toward them. Eric tells her to leave and she does so.Diana drives to a motel, once she arrives at the motel she gets a message on her phone from a staff member of the school stating that there is a problem with a student, Eric Tull, and that his father is at the school and it is important that she call immediately. The film ends with Diana curling up on her bed and crying, realizing that Eric must have confessed to the school about their secret affair and she was soon going to come through humiliation and ultimately has lost Eric.