This Is the End is a 2013 American fantasy disaster comedy film directed by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg and stars Rogen, James Franco, Jonah Hill, Jay Baruchel, Danny McBride, Craig Robinson, Michael Cera and Emma Watson. The story features real life actors playing fictionalized versions of themselves in the aftermath of a global biblical apocalypse. The film premiered at the Fox Village Theater on June 3, 2013 and was released in the United States on June 14, 2013 by Columbia Pictures, before being re-released on September 6, 2013.[3] The film grossed $126 million on a $32 million budget.[2] The film makes references to the past movies of the cast, including Spider-Man, Million Dollar Baby, Forrest Gump, Superbad, Pineapple Express, Moneyball, Your Highness, The Green Hornet, 127 Hours and the Harry Potter film series.Jay Baruchel arrives in Los Angeles to visit with old friend and fellow actor Seth Rogen, who invites him to attend a housewarming party hosted by James Franco. Baruchel is uncomfortable at the crowded party, so Rogen accompanies him to a convenience store for cigarettes. There, beams of blue light come down and suck numerous people into the sky. Rogen and Baruchel flee back to Franco's house, where an earthquake strikes and the partygoers rush outside. A large hole opens in Franco's yard, swallowing Michael Cera (impaled by a lamppost), Rihanna, Mindy Kaling, Jason Segel, Christopher Mintz-Plasse and Martin Starr. Rogen, Franco, Jonah Hill and Craig Robinson survive and run back inside the house. Franco's assistant Karen gets accidentally crushed by Paul Rudd. Aziz Ansari gets his arm cut off and falls into the sinkhole. Kevin Hart tries to get Ansari's arm off, but he also falls into the sinkhole. Baruchel tries to help David Krumholtz escape the sinkhole, but he fails and also runs back to the house. They take inventory of their supplies, set up a ration system, and await help.The next morning, Danny McBride, also in the house and unaware of the crisis, wastes much of their food and water. The others tell him of the previous night's events, which he initially does not believe until a man (Brian Huskey) outside is decapitated as they watch. Tensions rise due to various conflicts, including Baruchel and Rogen's growing estrangement, and the others' scepticism of Baruchel's belief that the disaster might be the Apocalypse predicted in the Book of Revelation. Later, Emma Watson, another survivor of the party, returns. However, due to a misunderstanding, she believes the group is planning to rape her and leaves, taking the group's remaining drinks with her. Robinson is chosen to travel outside to the basement for water, but finds the door is locked and returns after an encounter with an unknown being.The experience causes Robinson to believe Baruchel's theory that the Apocalypse has arrived. The guys reach the basement by digging through the floor, and find the water, but McBride ends up wasting most of it out of spite, prompting him to be kicked out of the house. Before he leaves, McBride reveals that Baruchel was in town two months prior but stayed at a hotel, instead of at Rogen's house, because of their strained friendship. Hill makes a remark that annoys Baruchel, causing him to punch Hill. Later that night, Hill prays for Baruchel to die, but is possessed by a demon shortly after. The next day, Baruchel and Robinson go to a neighboring home for supplies, and escape a demonic bull. Meanwhile, Rogen and Franco are attacked by the possessed Hill. The group subdues Hill, but during an exorcism attempt, Baruchel and Rogen get into a fight and knock a candle over. A fire starts, engulfing Hill and the house in flames and forcing the others outside.Franco suggests taking his car to his home in Malibu, but finds the car guarded by a demon. Robinson volunteers to sacrifice himself. The plan succeeds and Robinson is raptured, leading the others to realize they can be saved if they do a selfless act. They are then captured by cannibals led by McBride. Franco volunteers to sacrifice himself to save the others, but taunts McBride as he ascends to Heaven, causing his beam to vanish. Franco is then eaten alive by McBride and his cannibals. Rogen and Baruchel escape, but they encounter a gigantic satanic being. Baruchel apologises to Seth for his actions as the being attempts to eat them. A beam strikes Baruchel, and he begins to ascend while Rogen does not. Baruchel grabs Rogen's hand, but Rogen's presence prevents him from ascending into Heaven. As a result, Rogen lets him go; he is promptly saved by another beam, which also kills the being.In heaven Rogen and Baruchel meet Robinson, who tells them that Heaven is a place where any desire comes true. Baruchel wishes for the Backstreet Boys and the band performs "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)" as everyone dances.