You're Next is a 2011 American slasher film directed by Adam Wingard, written by Simon Barrett and starring Sharni Vinson, Nicholas Tucci, Wendy Glenn, A. J. Bowen and Joe Swanberg. The plot concerns a family under attack by a group of masked assailants during their wedding anniversary getaway.The film opens with a couple being murdered in their house by assailants wearing various animal masks.Erin accompanies her boyfriend Crispian Davison to his family reunion at their rural Missouri vacation home. Present are Crispian's parents Aubrey and Paul, Drake (Crispian's older brother) and Kelly (Drake's wife), younger Davison siblings Felix and Aimee, Zee (Felix's girlfriend) and Tariq (Aimee's boyfriend). During a dinner argument, crossbow bolts are shot through the window, killing Tariq and wounding Drake.With their cell phone signals jammed by the attackers, Aimee runs out the front door to get help, but runs into a garrote wire which slashes her throat. She quickly dies from blood loss. Crispian leaves the house to find help. Paul brings Aubrey to her bedroom upstairs; when Paul leaves, Fox Mask appears from under the bed and kills Aubrey. The rest of the family rushes upstairs to find Aubrey dead with the words "You're next" scrawled on the wall in blood.Erin texts 911 and begins finding objects that can be used as weapons. She encounters Tiger Mask and evades his attack, wounding him in the process. Kelly returns to the bedroom and discovers Fox Mask still hiding under the bed. She panics and runs to the neighboring home. After pounding on the window for help, she gets inside but discovers the murdered couple (who were killed in the opening scene) and is killed by Lamb Mask. Back at the house, Tiger Mask fails to kill Erin and is in turn killed by her with a meat tenderizer. Lamb Mask finds Drake, but Erin stabs him with a screwdriver and he retreats.While exploring the house, Paul finds evidence that the killers had been staying in the house for a while. He tries to tell Zee and Felix, but Fox Mask kills him. It is revealed that Felix and Zee hired the assassins to murder the family and collect their inheritance.Felix lures Drake to the basement and fatally stabs him. Meanwhile, Erin (still unaware of Felix and Zee's scheme) and Zee set up traps together; Erin explains that she grew up on a survivalist compound where she learned her combat and survival skills. Zee is about to attempt to kill Erin, but is interrupted. Erin overhears an argument between Felix, Zee, Fox Mask and Lamb Mask. Realizing their plans, she escapes from the house, injuring her leg in the process. Lamb Mask pursues Erin but she kills him.Realizing she cannot outrun the remaining killer with a wounded leg, Erin returns to the house and sets up a trap at the front door. Fox Mask, however, enters the house through a window, so she sets up an ambush in the basement and kills him. With their hired assassins dead, Zee and Felix attempt to kill Erin themselves, but she brutally kills them both. Crispian calls Felix's phone, and when Erin picks up the call, he inadvertently reveals his involvement in the scheme. Crispian returns to the house and, ignoring his attempts to bribe her with money, Erin fatally stabs him.A policeman arrives and shoots Erin in the shoulder, having seen her kill Crispian. After calling for backup, he attempts to enter the house but is accidentally killed by Erin's front door trap that was intended for Fox Mask. The credits show crime scene photos with police annotations.