Adult World is a 2013 American comedy film directed by Scott Coffey and written by Andy Cochran. The film premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival in April 2013 and stars Emma Roberts, Evan Peters, and John Cusack. The film was released in a limited release and through video on demand on February 14, 2014 by IFC Films.[2]Recent college graduate Amy (Emma Roberts) believes she's destined to be a great poet. Pressed by her parents to earn a living, she takes a job at a small sex shop, Adult World, where she works with the manager, Alex (Evan Peters). When her car is stolen, her parents discover that she had canceled the car's theft insurance to afford submission fees for poetry journals, and kick her out. She briefly moves in with a coworker, transwoman Rubia (Armando Riesco), before finding her own apartment.She meets one of her favorite poets, Rat Billings (John Cusack), and talks her way into being his protégée by offering to clean his house. After some cajoling, Billings reads her poetry and offers to feature her work in an anthology he is working on. One night, she gets drunk and makes a clumsy attempt to seduce him, but he rebuffs her advances.Alex fires Amy after she fails to catch a shoplifter; angered, she says she is too good to work there. She soon discovers that she misses Alex, however, and realizes that she has feelings for him. She apologizes to him and asks for her job back. Alex rehires her, and they begin hanging out. At Amy's birthday party, Billings gives her a copy of the poetry anthology he featured her work in—Shit Poems: An Anthology of Bad Verse. Furious and humiliated, she confronts him and calls him a has-been. She goes home and tries to commit suicide by asphyxiating herself with a plastic bag, but changes her mind at the last second.The next day, she makes peace with Billings: he tells her that she needs to do more living before she can fulfill her potential as a writer, while she tells him not to take himself so seriously. Later, she sleeps with Alex, and they become a couple. She finds out she has been published in an erotica magazine that she submitted prose to as a joke. She and Alex go to a party together to celebrate, and he encourages her to keep writing. The film ends with Amy reading Shit Poems with a smile on her face.In the epilogue, next to the credits, she becomes a well-known poet. Rat is reading a poetry magazine with her picture on the cover and then she arranges her first poetry book on a shelf in a bookstore to be more prominently shown.