Need for Speed is a 2014 American action film directed by Scott Waugh, written by George Gatins and John Gatins and produced by DreamWorks and Reliance Entertainment.[3] Based on the series of video games by Electronic Arts, the film stars Aaron Paul as street racer Tobey Marshall, who sets off to race cross-country, as a way of avenging his friend's death at the hands of a rival racer (Dominic Cooper).Tobey Marshall is a former race car driver who owns a garage named Marshall Motors in Mount Kisco, New York where he and his friends tune performance cars. Struggling to make ends meet, he and his crew participate in street races after hours. After a race, Tobey's former rival Dino Brewster arrives at their garage with an offer to complete the build of a rare Ford Shelby Mustang worked on by the late Carroll Shelby. Dino wants Tobey and his crew to complete the project in exchange for 25% of the car's estimated selling price of $2 million.The completed Shelby Mustang is put up for auction at a party. Tobey and Dino meet Julia, an English car broker whose client will purchase the car if they can go prove it will drive over 230 mph as Tobey claims. Tobey volunteers to drive the car, but Dino objects and orders him not to. The next morning Tobey gets the Mustang to reach 234 mph, leading Julia's client Bill Ingram to purchase it for $2.7 million. After Julia and Ingram leave, an enraged Dino confronts Tobey for driving the car after being ordered not to.Dino challenges Tobey and Pete to a race after Pete flatly tells Dino that everyone knows Tobey is a better driver than him. Dino offers to give up his entire share of the Mustang sale if Tobey wins, Tobey agrees to forfeit his share if Dino wins. The three race on the interstate in three illegally imported Koenigsegg Agera R. During the race, Dino realizes he will lose and intentionally bumps Pete's car, flipping it into a ravine and killing Pete when it bursts into flames. Dino disappears from the scene, and Tobey is sent to jail for involuntary manslaughter after no one can prove that Dino was there.Two years later, Tobey is released on parole and sets out to avenge Pete's death. He borrows Ingram's Mustang to enter the De Leon, a winner-takes-all supercar race organized by the mysterious Monarch. As a condition, Ingram requires Julia to accompany Tobey with the Mustang. The pair have to reach San Francisco before the race starts in two days, but first cause an interstate chase with the Michigan State Police and upload the footage, leading Monarch to offer the invitation for the De Leon. Dino offers his rare Lamborghini Sesto Elemento to anyone who can stop Tobey from entering the race.While Tobey and Julia drive through Utah, they are forced off-road by a couple of trucks vying for Dino's car. Maverick, a member of Tobey's crew, appears in a US Army helicopter he stole from the National Guard. Maverick tows the Mustang mid-air to the Bonneville Salt Flats, where Tobey's crew awaits them, getting himself arrested in the process. Tobey and Julia reach San Francisco in time to register for the race, but the Mustang is destroyed when Dino's henchman smashes into it with a tow truck. The Mustang is flipped over, seriously injuring Julia and leaving Tobey without a car for the race. A desperate Tobey reaches out to Dino's fiancè Anita, his ex-girlfriend and Pete's sister. Anita discovers that Dino covered up his involvement in Pete's death and gives Tobey the location of the Agera R that Dino was driving when he killed Pete. Toby and Joe go to the warehouse for the Agera R. Tobey meets up with Julia, at the hospital, and confesses his feelings for her with a kiss, letting her know that he has a "fast" car, and that this is for Pete.The next morning, Tobey surprises Dino by showing up in the Koenigsegg and giving him Anita's engagement ring to inform him that she dumped him. The race is gruelling, with racers and police alike getting wrecked one by one. Leaving himself and Toby racing side-by-side along the Pacific Coast Highway, Dino attempts to ram Tobey off the road, but Tobey slams the brakes, causing Dino's car to flip and catch fire. Tobey sees the finish line, but turns around to pull Dino from the flames before completing the race and winning. The California Highway Patrol arrives to arrest them both; the police prove the Agera R belonged to Dino and use that evidence to put Dino in jail. After serving 178 days in jail for illegal street racing, Tobey is released and Julia meets him at the prison gates with a 2015 Ford Mustang. The couple heads to the prison in Utah where Maverick is being released early for good behavior.