X-Men: Days of Future Past is a 2014 American superhero film based on the fictional X-Men characters that appear in Marvel Comics. Directed by Bryan Singer, it is the seventh installment of the X-Men film series and acts as a sequel to both 2006's X-Men: The Last Stand and 2011's X-Men: First Class. The story, inspired by the 1981 Uncanny X-Men storyline "Days of Future Past" by Chris Claremont and John Byrne, focuses on two time periods, with Wolverine traveling back in time to 1973 to change history and prevent an event that results in doom for both humans and mutants. The film features an ensemble cast, including Hugh Jackman, James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender, Jennifer Lawrence, Halle Berry, Anna Paquin, Ellen Page, Peter Dinklage, Ian McKellen and Patrick Stewart. Simon Kinberg wrote the screenplay from a story conceived by Jane Goldman, himself, and Matthew Vaughn.In the future, the robots known as Sentinels are exterminating mutants and their human allies. The Sentinels are near invincible as they possess Mystique's powers of transformation. This technology was made possible following research performed on Mystique when she was captured just after assassinating Dr. Bolivar Trask, creator of the Sentinels. A band of mutants, including Kitty Pryde, Colossus, Iceman, Bishop, Warpath, Blink and Sunspot, convene with Wolverine, Storm, Professor Charles Xavier, and Magneto in a hideout in remote China. Pryde is able to send other people's consciousness into their own bodies in the past, allowing the time traveller to change the future. When the Sentinals arrived at their China base and almost killed the entire team, she uses this ability to send on one of her teammates back in time so that they could give the warning. The X-Men agree that someone must be sent back in time to prevent Mystique from assassinating Trask, which would prevent her capture and therefore prevent the creation of the Sentinels. However, Pryde warns that sending someone back in time so far will most likely kill them, unless they have the ability to heal quickly. Therefore, Wolverine volunteers to make the journey, and Pryde sends his consciousness back fifty years to 1973 to prevent Mystique from assassinating Trask, which led to her capture and revealed the threat that mutants could pose to normal humans.At the X-Mansion in 1973, the future/present Wolverine encounters Xavier and Hank McCoy. Xavier, a broken man, has been overusing a serum that allows him to walk but suppresses his telepathy. Wolverine explains his mission and persuades Xavier to help free Magneto from a prison cell beneath The Pentagon, where he is being held for assassinating President John F. Kennedy. They rescue Magneto with the help of Peter Maximoff, a mutant with super speed.In Washington, D.C., Trask unsuccessfully tries to sway Congress to gain support for his Sentinel program. Meanwhile, in Saigon, Mystique prevents William Stryker from appropriating a group of mutant G.I.s for Trask's research.Xavier, Magneto, Beast, and Wolverine fly to Paris to intercept Mystique, who is impersonating a North Vietnamese general to infiltrate the Paris Peace Accords. However, her presence is discovered as Trask endeavors to demonstrate the Prototype Sentinel technology to military leaders. The group arrives as Mystique is about to kill Trask. Magneto tries to kill Mystique to ensure her DNA cannot be used for the Sentinels, but she escapes. The fight spills onto the street in view of the public, allowing Magneto and Mystique to escape.Trask is saved, but the world is horrified by the existence of mutants. President Richard Nixon approves Trask's Sentinel program and arranges an unveiling ceremony. Trask's scientists recover Mystique's blood from the street. Meanwhile, Magneto—who has recovered his telepathy-blocking helmet—intercepts the prototype Sentinels in transit and laces their polymer-based frames with steel, enabling him to control them.At the mansion, Xavier stops taking his serum and slowly regains his telepathic powers, while losing the ability to walk. Through Wolverine, Xavier is able to speak with his future self and is inspired to work for peace between humans and mutants once again. He uses Cerebro to track Mystique, who is heading to Washington, D.C.As Xavier, Wolverine, and Beast search for Mystique, Nixon unveils the Sentinel prototypes at the White House. Magneto commandeers the Sentinels and attacks the crowd, then sets the Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Stadium around the White House as a barricade. Nixon and Trask, accompanied by the Cabinet, Secret Service officers, and Mystique (disguised as a Secret Service member), are taken to a safe room. Wolverine and Beast try to stop Magneto, but he pits a Sentinel against them and then throws Wolverine into the Potomac River.In the future, the X-Men make their final stand as a large army of Sentinels attack the monastery. In 1973, Magneto pulls the safe room from the White House and prepares to kill Nixon and his Cabinet. Mystique, who is disguised as Nixon, incapacitates Magneto with a plastic gun. Xavier persuades Mystique to spare Trask and allows her and Magneto to flee. Mystique's actions are seen as a mutant saving the President, leading to the cancellation of the Sentinel program. Trask is arrested for trying to sell American military secrets. In the future, Mystique's actions finally take effect just before a group of Sentinals can kill Pryde, Wolverine, Magneto, and Xavier, the last mutants alive defending the China hideout.Wolverine wakes up at the mansion back in the present day to find Iceman, Rogue, Colossus, Pryde, Beast, Storm, Jean Grey, Scott Summers, and Xavier all alive. He then proceeds to explain to Xavier about his experience. In 1973, Mystique, impersonating Stryker, takes custody of Wolverine, who has been fished out of the river.In a post-credits scene, a crowd chants to En Sabah Nur, who is using telekinesis to build pyramids as four horsemen watch from nearby.[6][7]