Obvious Child is a 2014 American romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Gillian Robespierre, in her directorial debut, and stars Jenny Slate, Jake Lacy, Gaby Hoffmann and David Cross. The story follows Donna (Slate), a stand-up comedian, who has a drunken one-night stand with a man named Max (Lacy) after breaking up with her boyfriend. She subsequently finds out she is pregnant and decides to have an abortion.After performing a set at her regular comedy club, Donna Stern (Jenny Slate) is dumped in the bathroom by her boyfriend, Ryan (Paul Briganti), who confesses he is leaving her for one of her friends. Donna tailspins into a wave of depression and later drunkenly delivers a terrible set in which she insults her ex-boyfriend. Later that night, at the bar, she meets Max (Jake Lacy), who is there with clients but who missed her set. Donna and Max have an instant connection and they end up having sex. In the morning Donna leaves Max's apartment without saying goodbye.Several weeks after their one-night stand, Donna discovers that she is pregnant. Donna visits a Planned Parenthood clinic to schedule an abortion and discovers the only dates available are her mother's birthday and Valentine's Day; she picks Valentine's Day.Max tracks Donna down at the bookstore where she works and they have the first of several awkward conversations. Donna then runs into Max when he stops by her mother's apartment to return a book to her mother, Nancy (Polly Draper), who is a former professor of his. They have lunch together where Donna is prepared to tell Max about her pregnancy and impending abortion until he makes a comment about how he wants to be a grandfather someday. He comes to Donna's comedy show, but she leaves with another man, Sam (David Cross). She has an awkward evening with Sam and quickly leaves. After her terrible night, Donna visits her mother to talk about her upcoming abortion. Her mother comforts her by telling her that she too had an abortion before Donna was conceived.After pushing Max away, Donna finally invites him to the club to see her perform. When he arrives she performs a set, speaking about how she is pregnant and planning to have an abortion. Max leaves, but on the day of Donna's abortion, he arrives at her home with flowers and asks if he can accompany her to her procedure. While at the clinic he tells her he supports her, and that when he said that he wanted to be a grandfather, he meant sometime far in the future. The two agree that this is one of the nicest Valentine's Days they have ever had. After the abortion, Max takes Donna to his home where he makes her tea, and then they watch Gone with the Wind together.