Transformers: Age of Extinction is a 2014 American science fiction action film based on the Transformers franchise. It is the fourth installment of the live-action Transformers film series and a stand-alone sequel to 2011's Transformers: Dark of the Moon, taking place four years after its events. Like its predecessors, it was directed by Michael Bay and written by Ehren Kruger, with Steven Spielberg and Bay as executive producers. It stars Mark Wahlberg, with Peter Cullen reprising his role as the voice of Optimus Prime. It is the first film in the series to not feature the original human characters from the first three films, but features a new cast of human characters and many new Transformers including: Galvatron, the Dinobots, Lockdown, Stinger, Junkheap, Hound, Crosshairs and Drift. Returning Transformers include: Optimus Prime, Bumblebee, Ratchet, Leadfoot and Brains. The film was released on June 27, 2014, in IMAX and 3D.[5]Sixty-five million years ago, an alien race known as the “Creators” used devices called Seeds to terraform Planet Earth, covering it with an alloy called Transformium. In the present day, geologist Darcy Tirrel excavates the Transformium for K.S.I. Industries, which uses it to build drones based on the inhabitants of Cybertron, now known as "Transformers".Five years after The Battle of Chicago, the majority of Americans have begun to view Transformers as enemies of humanity. Although the public believes that Autobots have been granted sanctuary, they are in fact hunted down by a rogue CIA black ops division known as Cemetery Wind, led by government official Harold Attinger, who believes that all Transformers should be exterminated regardless of their faction. They are aided by Lockdown, a Cybertronian bounty hunter working for the Creators, promising to give Attinger a Seed if his division manages to capture Optimus Prime. Lockdown loses track of Optimus in Mexico City, instead killing Ratchet when he refuses to give up his leader’s whereabouts.Optimus, damaged in Mexico City and disguised as a rundown semi-truck, is discovered by Cade Yeager, a financially struggling Texan inventor. While his teenage daughter Tessa and business partner Lucas Flannery encourage him to turn Optimus over to the authorities, Cade instead fixes Optimus, hoping to understand his technology. Lucas calls Cemetery Wind who attacks the Yeager farm, but Optimus, and Tessa’s boyfriend, Irish rally car driver Shane Dyson, come to the family’s aid. During the pursuit, Lucas is killed by one of Lockdown’s grenades. Optimus summons the surviving Autobots – Bumblebee, Hound, Drift, and Crosshairs – who have come to distrust humans. Using a stolen CIA drone, Cade discovers K.S.I.’s involvement in the attacks on the Autobots.Infiltrating K.S.I.’s headquarters in Chicago, Cade discovers that the remains of Autobots are being melted down to make lifeless drones. Joshua Joyce, the ambitious company CEO, is in league with Attinger to revolutionize global defenses and improve human society using the Seed. He has also used the captured Brains and Megatron’s head to create prototype Transformer soldiers Galvatron and Stinger. Despite Joshua wanting Galvatron to look more like Optimus Prime, the finished Galvatron resembles Megatron. The Autobots storm the building and destroy the laboratory, but they soon leave after Joshua announces that they are no longer required. Attinger forces Joshua to deploy the destructive Galvatron to capture the Autobot terrorists. During the battle, Galvatron's behavior becomes slightly erratic when it starts destroying vehicles, but Joshua manages to redirect it to target the Autobots. As Galvatron battles Optimus, it gets autonomously freed from control and speaks to Optimus, surprising Joshua. Suddenly, Lockdown arrives and soon abducts both Optimus and Tessa, leaving Cade and Shane devastated.While Lockdown’s large prison spacecraft hovers over Chicago to hand over the Seed, Cade, Shane, and the Autobots sneak on board to rescue Optimus and Tessa. They hijack a smaller ship, containing a number of other Autobots called the Dinobots, just before Lockdown leaves Earth. The Autobots reveal to Cade that "Galvatron" is in fact Megatron, who had transferred his consciousness into the Galvatron drone after K.S.I. officials had accidentally revived him. They realise that Megatron is plotting to use the Seed and the K.S.I. drones to conquer the world, by detonating the Seed in Hong Kong. K.S.I. plans to use the Seed in the remote Mongolian desert to create vast amounts of usable Transformium. Cade informs of Megatron's presence to Joshua, causing him to have a change of heart, agreeing to hand over the Seed with help from Darcy and his Chinese business associate Su Yueming. Megatron activates himself and takes control of the K.S.I. drones. Afterwards, a battle ensues in Hong Kong’s streets between the Autobots, Cemetery Wind, and Megatron and his drones. During the fight, Optimus wins the alliance of the Dinobots, who become essential to the Autobots' victory.Lockdown returns to capture Optimus and the Dinobots, using a large magnet to cause destruction. After disabling the magnet, Optimus fights Lockdown at an abandoned factory. In the ensuing duel, Optimus kills Attinger, but allows Lockdown to pin Optimus down with his own sword. Cade ends up fighting Lockdown while Tessa and Shane free Optimus, who destroys Lockdown. Megatron retreats, vowing that he will return. Optimus asks the Autobots to protect the Yeagers, before flying away into space with the Seed, sending a message to the Creators that he is coming for them.