Earth to Echo is a 2014 American found footage science fiction film directed by Dave Green, and produced by Ryan Kavanaugh and Andrew Panay. The film was originally developed and produced by Walt Disney Pictures, who eventually sold the distribution rights to Relativity Media, which released the completed film in theaters on July 2, 2014.Three neighborhood teens and childhood friends, Alex, Tuck, and Munch, are upset by the fact that their neighborhood, Mulberry Woods, Nevada, is being demolished, allegedly for a new highway construction project, and that Alex is moving, due to him being a foster child.While at Tuck's house, their phones start to glitch out, displaying seemingly random graphical patterns. They soon find out, through Munch, that the patterns are actually a map to a spot in the desert 17.6 miles away. They decide to go to the desert on their bikes and disguise it as a sleepover, recording the experience on various cameras because it's their last night together.Tuck, Alex, and Munch soon make it to the desert, as they follow the map to a dusty, rusted object under a cable tower. Tuck, confused, decides to abruptly call it off, when the object starts to copy Alex's ringtone. They follow another map to a barn, as the object telekinetically starts to repair itself, and is able to answer questions using a "Yes" or "No" answer, from which the boys learn that it is from outer space, has crash landed, and was seriously injured.They soon follow another map to a pawn shop, where the object further repairs itself, and reveals itself as an alien, using Alex's phone camera to "see" and befriend the three. While in an alley, they decide to name the alien "Echo." They again follow another map to a house in which Emma, a Mulberry Woods high school student, lives and finds out about Echo. Emma soon joins the team, as they go to a bar, and then an arcade, as she finds out the object Echo is in is a key to a spaceship hidden in Mulberry Woods.At the arcade, Alex is caught by a security guard. Although Tuck and Munch suspect Alex allowed himself to be caught because he is angry at Tuck for accidentally abandoning him, Emma goes back in to rescue Alex, and Echo scares the security guard away. Stopping at a nearby restaurant, the four talk and reconcile, as a "construction worker" captures both Munch and Echo. Tuck, Alex, and Emma then go to Tuck's brother's party and steal his car to catch up with Munch and Echo. They find the "construction site" where Munch is being interrogated and Echo is being experimented on, but get caught by the same "construction worker." He explains that he and his group (who seem to actually be government agents of some kind) shot down Echo's spaceship and intend to prevent him from repairing it and going home so they can capture and study Echo's technology. However, right after they shot it down they discovered they couldn't find any debris from the spaceship, so they invented a false construction project so they could dig up the neighborhood, thinking it must have somehow concealed itself underground.After the kids lie and say they'll help them find Echo's spaceship, the agents take the four kids to a junkyard, where Echo seemingly dies as a result of the experimentation, but with encouragement from the kids he revives and completes his repairs, then diverts and traps the agents long enough for the four kids to drive back home and find the core of the spaceship, which was buried under Alex's home the entire time. Alex takes Echo inside, followed by the rest of them, where they say goodbye as Echo safely starts up the ship, telekinetically reassembles it from parts that had been buried all over the neighborhood, and flies away.After the event, the construction project is abandoned, but Alex and Munch move away anyway, as their families had already bought new homes elsewhere. Tuck stays, however, and new neighbors move in. Sometime later, the four meet up again, as the film ends with Alex holding up his phone towards the sky.In a scene after the credits, Alex addresses his friends as his phone apparently starts to move and glitch out, a sign that Echo may be returning.