School Dance is a 2014 American comedy-drama musical film directed, written, and produced by Nick Cannon. The film stars Bobb'e J. Thompson, the Ranger$, Mike Epps, Luenell, Kristina DeBarge, Katt Williams, Tiffany Haddish, George Lopez, and Wilmer Valderrama. The film was released on July 2, 2014 in select theaters, VOD, and Digital HD.[1][2] It is Cannon's directoral feature film debut.The film opens with a news broadcast about a teenager named Jason Jackson (Bobb'e J. Thompson) being shot outside of the Monte Vista High School dance lock-in. Jason tells the story from the beginning, starting with him trying to get into the most popular dance clique in school, the Ranger$ (Langston Higgins, Julian Goins, and Dashawn Blanks). They say he has to pass the initiation of getting a pair of panties from one of the Sweet Gyrls by midnight. Jason is also trying to get his crush, Anastacia (Kristinia DeBarge), to notice him, but all she remembers about him is when he peed on her in elementary school.Meanwhile, Day Day, one of the Ranger$ and Jason's older cousin, owes Anastacia's eldest brother, Junior, $2,000 by midnight due to Day Day's father, Darren (Katt Williams), telling Junior that he would pay him after losing in dominoes. They go to the gym and give people a taste of what they will do at the lock-in. Jason gives Anastacia a poem he wrote about her as her homework, and the teacher makes her read it in front of the class. Anastacia gives Jason her number so they can write a song together sometime.Another subplot of the film is two police officers, Officer P'eniss and Lagney, who are chasing down the New Boyz, who are on their way to the lock-in but get caught with weed brownies and "grape juice", which Officer Lagney consumes.At the school dance lock-in, Jason, Anastacia, the Ranger$, and Sweet Gyrls play "7 Minutes in Heaven", but when it is Jason and Anastacia's turn, she tells him that she already knows his plan. They compete in a talent show to win $2,000 but when it comes to the Ranger$' performance, Jason finally beats his fear and raps to help them win the money. However, the Sweet Gyrls win.At midnight, Jason and the Ranger$ meet the Eses in the parking lot and are about to be killed until the wannabe gangsters (Kevin Hart and Lil Duval) start a drive-by shooting. Jason saves Anastacia, but is shot. Jason is sent to the hospital and Anastacia goes with him, becomes his girlfriend, and gives Flaco the $2,000 prize money so they won't kill Day Day.The film ends with Mamma Tawanna (Luenell) coming into the parking lot with a gun, yelling "who shot Jason?" and breaking the fourth wall, showing Nick, the producers and the crew shouting to the audience.