Step Up: All In is a 2014 American dance film directed by Trish Sie and the fifth installment in the Step Up series. The film was released on August 8, 2014.Sean (Ryan Guzman) and his crew the MOB from Step Up: Revolution, are in Los Angeles trying to make a living from dancing, but are turned down at every audition. After being refused at another audition, the MOB visit a club where they are noticed and challenged to a dance battle by another crew, the Grim Knights. The Grim Knights win the battle and the MOB decides to pack up and leave Los Angeles and return to Miami, thinking there is nothing left for them and that they aren't ready for Los Angeles.Sean decides to stay and while there, he notices a dance competition called The Vortex taking place, inspiring him to put together a new crew with help from Moose (Adam G. Sevani). Moose gets Sean a job working as a janitor in a dance center owned by Moose's grandparents, where Sean takes up residence in a janitor's closet. Sean and Moose recruit Andrea "Andie" West (Briana Evigan) and later Vladd, Violet, Hair, Chad, Monster, the Santiago Twins, Jenny Kido and Gauge to the crew. The group soon makes an audition video as the LMNTRIX and are accepted into the competition a few weeks later.The crew heads to Las Vegas to compete. Upon arriving, Sean finds out that both the Grim Knights and the MOB are also in the competition, motivating the LMNTRIX to practice extra hard. While the rest of the crew are at a bar, Sean and Andie reveal they have broken up with their respective partners. Moose kisses another girl while freestyle dancing at the bar, which his girlfriend Camille Gage (Alyson Stoner) witnesses. She runs off, prompting Moose to leave the crew and return to Los Angeles to make up with her. The LMNTRIX battle the MOB in a Vortex exhibition match; during the battle, Sean tries to force Andie to perform a trick they tried during one of their practices but Andie refuses and leaves. The LMNTRIX, however, still win the battle and the MOB leave, angry at Sean. Sean finds Andie outside, where she confronts him about his actions. Sean realize that he has made a lot of mistakes; he apologizes to the MOB and later makes up with Andie and the LMNTRIX.Moose goes home and finds Camille on the patio, where she reveals that she wasn't actually upset at him, but was jealous when she saw his dancing and realized that she hasn't committed herself to it, despite being a talented dancer; they later make up. Chad and Jenny Kido overhear Alexxa Brava, the host of The Vortex, and Jasper, the leader of the Grim Knights making out, realizing that Alexxa is rigging the competition. Once the whole crew finds out, they come up with a plan to teach Alexxa and the Grim Knights a lesson.Moose returns and rejoins the crew (bringing Camille along), and the MOB join forces with the LMNTRIX for the competition. When the finals of The Vortex approach (the Grim Knights vs. the LMNTRIX), the Grim Knights give a great performance, which the host remarks will be hard to beat. Before LMNTRIX perform, Sean takes the stage and discusses with the crowd that his experiences have taught him what really matters. He then persuades the crowd to forget about winning or losing and just enjoy the show. The rest of the crew then take the stage and give an amazing performance. Sean and Andie decide to end the dance by performing the trick Sean wanted her to do earlier in the film, which they successfully complete, followed by a passionate kiss between the two, leaving the crowd amazed.The producers call Alexxa and inform her that the LMNTRIX won and that they will get a three-year contract for their own show. The film ends with the LMNTRIX and the MOB happily celebrating their excellent performance and victory.