A Walk Among the Tombstones is a 2014 American neo-noir crime drama-thriller film written and directed by Scott Frank, and based on a 1992 novel of the same name by Lawrence Block. It stars Liam Neeson, Dan Stevens, David Harbour, Brian Bradley and Boyd Holbrook. It serves as an indirect sequel to the 1986 film 8 Million Ways to Die, featuring the same lead character. The film was released on September 19, 2014. Critical reception was mixed to positive, and the film was a financial success.In 1991, Detective Matthew Scudder (Liam Neeson) is in a car with his partner. He then enters a bar and buys drinks. Two masked men come in and kill the bartender, and Matt kills one man with his gun. He pursues and kills the second man, as well as the third who acted as a getaway driver.Eight years later, a junkie named Peter (Boyd Holbrook) approaches Matt, now retired, and asks him to help his brother Kenny Kristo (Dan Stevens), a drug trafficker whose wife was kidnapped and murdered. Kenny told Matt that after he delivered the ransom, the kidnappers directed him to a car containing his wife's dismembered body. Matt agrees to find the kidnappers.At the library, Matt researches similar killings, and finds victims named Marie Gotteskind and Leila Anderssen. He meets a street kid named TJ (Brian "Astro" Bradley), who helps him with his search. Following an article, Matt goes to a cemetery and speaks with the groundskeeper, Jonas Loogan (Olafur Darri Olafsson), who is upset that Matt forces him to remember finding a dismembered Leila in the cemetery pond.Matt talks to Leila's fiancé Reuben (Mark Consuelos), who claims to have witnessed two men drag her into a van driven by a third person. Out the window, Matt sees Jonas exiting an apartment building. In a tool shed belonging to Jonas on the building's roof, Matt finds photos of Reuben and Leila having sex. Jonas admits that he helped kidnap Leila. He conspired to take Leila away from Reuben, who is a drug dealer, and help her stop using drugs. Instead, the other two men tortured and killed Leila. Jonas gives Matt one name (Ray) and jumps off the roof to his death.The two kidnappers, Ray and Albert (David Harbour and Adam David Thompson), scout the home of Yuri Landau (Sebastian Roche) another drug trafficker. After realizing Landau's wife is bedridden, they prepare to leave for a new target. However, they see his 14-year-old daughter Lucia (Danielle Rose Russell), and Ray decides to kidnap her.Matt eventually learns that Marie was a DEA agent and realizes that the people who murdered her also got her files, which they have been using to choose their victims. Meanwhile, Matt grows closer to TJ, and encourages the boy to study to avoid a life of crime. During a conversation with TJ, Matt explains why he retired. During the shootout from the opening scene, one of his bullets killed a 7-year-old girl. He has been trying to quit drinking ever since.Kenny brings Matt to Landau's home, where the kidnappers call and arrange a drop. Matt, Kenny, Landau, Peter and TJ (who earlier brought Matt his old gun) go to the cemetery. After a stand off, Lucia is returned to her father. When Albert realizes the ransom money is counterfeit, a shootout ensues. Peter is killed and Matt wounds Ray. Albert and Ray escape in their van.After Albert and Ray arrive at their place, TJ sneaks out of their van, calls Matt and tells him the address. Albert  garrottes Ray in the basement, and goes back upstairs to find Matt, Kenny and TJ. Matt overpowers and cuffs Albert. He leaves Albert for Kenny and calls a cab for TJ. While Kenny goes down the basement, Albert frees himself. Matt goes back inside the house and finds Kenny's corpse. Albert attacks Matt and after a brief fight, Matt kills him.Matt returns home to find TJ sleeping on the couch. He spots a drawing that TJ made of himself as a superhero. He sits down and falls asleep.