The Scribbler is a 2014 American thriller film directed by John Suits and written by Daniel Schaffer, based on his own graphic novel of same name. The film stars Katie Cassidy, Garret Dillahunt, Eliza Dushku, Kunal Nayyar, Michelle Trachtenberg and Sasha Grey.Suki, a young woman suffering from multiple personality disorder, moves into Juniper Tower, an apartment complex that serves as a halfway house for mental patients who don't need to be institutionalized any longer, but are not completely cured yet. Suki has been given an experimental device that lets her perform a procedure known as The Siamese Burn on herself. The machine is supposed to "burn" all her extra personalities until she only has one left.At Juniper Tower, Suki reconnects with her friend with benefits Hogan, a man who fakes depression so that he can stay there as the "rooster of the henhouse". She also meets several female tenants and learns that Hogan has slept with most of them. One by one, the girls are found dead from apparent suicide.Suki soon realizes that the girls have actually been murdered, and is worried that one of her multiple personalities is responsible. She keeps using the "Siamese Burn" to delete them, but the machine has been heavily modified, which leads Suki to believe that one of her personas, the one that committed the crimes, is trying to keep Suki from getting rid of her. She suspects the mysterious "Scribbler", a superpowered being who communicates with her by scribbling messages backwards.Suki finally understands that the Scribbler has really been trying to help her solve the murders, and embraces her alter ego in order to fight the real killer, Alice, an escaped mental patient who's been hiding at Juniper Tower. Alice turns out to be the evil personality of Veronica, a young woman who unsuccessfully used the "Siamese Burn" to remove her. After the Scribbler overpowers Alice, Veronica commits suicide.Later that night, Suki is interrogated by Detective Moss, who believes she committed all the murders, and Doctor Silk, who's hoping to figure out what really happened. During the interrogation, Hogan creates a distraction, and Suki uses the Scribbler's supernatural abilities to escape.