Pootie Tang is a 2001 American comedy film written and directed by Louis C.K. Adapted from a comedy sketch that first appeared on The Chris Rock Show,[4] the character Pootie Tang is a satire of the stereotyped characters who appeared in old blaxploitation films. The title character's speech, which vaguely resembles pidgin, is mostly unintelligible to the audience, but the other characters in the film have no problem understanding him.Pootie Tang, born in "a small town outside Gary, Indiana", is portrayed as a ladies' man who is "too cool for words", even as a young child. His life is marked by the deaths of his mother "Momma Dee", and shortly thereafter his father "Daddy Tang", who dies after being mauled by a gorilla during his shift at the steel mill (the third time someone had suffered that particular fate). Just before Daddy Tang's death, Pootie inherits his father's belt and is told that (as long as he has right on his side) he can "whoop anyone's ass with just that belt."As a young adult, Pootie Tang rises to fame and becomes well known for a variety of reasons. He sings in nightclubs, stars in public service announcements for children, produces top-of-the-charts music hits, and generally defeats wrongdoers with the power of his belt. Dick Lecter, the CEO of multi-industrial conglomerate LecterCorp, learns of Pootie Tang's positive influence on society — and his negative influence on LecterCorp's bottom line. After his henchmen and a vile villain named Dirty Dee are sent away by Pootie's friends, Lecter encourages his right-hand lady, Ireenie, to seduce Pootie Tang into signing an agreement with LecterCorp that would stop Pootie Tang's influence on America's children.Pootie Tang falls for Ireenie's tricks and subsequently falls apart. His status as pop culture icon is destroyed, and he engages on a quest to "find [him]self". This journey is encouraged by Biggie Shortie, who promises to wait for Pootie to return to her and to the rest of society. Pootie moves to a farm where the local sheriff decides Pootie and his daughter should start dating. After his single corn stalk dies, he has a vision of Daddy Tang and Momma Dee. Daddy Tang reveals that there is nothing special about Pootie's belt; instead, Pootie must fight evil with the goodness that is inside him. After dealing with Dirty Dee and his henchman Froggy (as well as getting his belt back), Pootie realizes he must move back to the city and fight crime once again.Pootie Tang returns to the city just as Dick Lecter is unveiling the first of his new restaurant chain, Pootie's Bad Time Burgers. At a small news conference, Pootie confronts Lecter only to discover that Lecter has amassed dozens of "Pootie-alikes" who will spread the message of LecterCorp around the nation. Pootie Tang, with the help of Biggie Shortie, defeats all of these henchmen and Lecter himself. Good triumphs over evil once again, and Biggie Shortie finally gets her man: she and Pootie Tang plan to get married now that Pootie is back. Elsewhere, Dick Lecter leaves corporate life and becomes an actor, Ireenie leaves him and becomes a counselor helping at-risk teenage prostitutes, and Dirty Dee is still dirty.Pootie Tang-isms[edit]




This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Although Pootie Tang speaks in a completely unintelligible jive, everyone he meets seems to understand him. Here are some examples of his vocabulary. See wikiquote for a more complete list.

"Bammies."
many interpretations and usages, yet usually refers to normal acquaintances


"Sa Da Tay."
generally positive interpretations


"Wa Da Tah."
many interpretations and usages, yet usually is a confirmation statement like "that's for sure!"


"Sepatown."
many interpretations and usages, yet in many instances means "Calm down now" in a friendly manner


"Don't bang the dillies!"
Telling the kids during the PSA not to inject drugs, dillies being slang for dilaudid, a popular hydromorphone drug.


"The Tipi Tais."
generally accepted as "the kids"


"Dirty Dee, you're a baddy daddy lamatai tabby chai!"
a threat, an insult, or both


"What's the Dabble Dee?"
generally accepted as "What's the matter?"


"May I dane on the cherries, Mama T?"
"Mother, would it be acceptable for me to have some more peas?"


"Main Damie."
generally accepted as "Best Friend"


"Well Bob, I'm a pone tony."
explains his achievement in many diverse fields


"I'm going to sine your pitty on the runny kine!"
a warning to his enemies of impending punishment; also used to smooth-talk the ladies


"Ma Dilly."
seems to refer to a female "Damie"; he refers to Biggie Shorty as his Dilly


"Nay-no"
"no," as in "I gotta say the Nay-no, my brotha"


"Cole me down on the panny sty"
Pootie's way of indicating complicity and friendship in his listener


"Cole me on the panny sty."
Close to the above in sound, but gravely different in meaning. Cole me on the panny sty is insultingly nonsensical, as shown by the reaction of Bob Costas


"You ain't come one, but many tine tanies"
Pootie's way of saying "You didn't just bring yourself, you brought your whole crew to back you up", implying cowardice towards his listener

