Annabelle is a 2014 American supernatural horror film directed by John R. Leonetti, produced by James Wan, and written by Gary Dauberman. It is a prequel to 2013's The Conjuring and the second film in The Conjuring film series. The film was inspired by a story of a doll named Annabelle told by Ed and Lorraine Warren.[3] The film stars Annabelle Wallis, Ward Horton, and Alfre Woodard. The film was released worldwide on October 3, 2014.[4]The film starts with the same opening scene from The Conjuring, in which two young women and a young man are telling the demonologists Ed and Lorraine Warren about their experiences with a doll called Annabelle which they believe is haunted.In 1969, John and Mia Form live in Santa Monica and are expecting their first child. John gives her an expensive antique doll that she has wanted. That night, Mia hears sounds of a struggle as the next door neighbors, the Higgins, are murdered. When Mia calls the police, she is attacked by a man and a woman holding the doll. John and the police arrive and kill the man while the woman kills herself by slitting her own throat. A drop of her blood falls on the face of the doll. A news report identifies the assailants as Annabelle Higgins and her boyfriend. They are described as part of the Disciples of the Ram, a satanic cult that practiced devil worship.Since Annabelle was holding the doll while dying, Mia asks John to throw it away. Later during a mysterious fire, she trips over furniture while escaping and goes into labor. Mia gives birth to a healthy baby girl named Leah. The family moves into a new apartment and Mia finds the doll they thought they had discarded. More strange activity plagues Mia and her new baby. She contacts a police detective, who informs her of Annabelle Higgins involvement in the cult and their efforts to summon a demon by claiming a soul. Mia goes to a bookstore run by a woman named Evelyn and determines that the presence haunting her wants Leah's soul. Evelyn tells Mia that she had a daughter named Ruby who died in a car accident caused by Evelyn. She was so guilt-ridden that she attempted suicide. She claims to have heard Ruby's voice telling her it wasn't Evelyn's time to die.The couple contacts their priest, Father Perez, who tries to take the doll with him to church. Annabelle's ghost attacks him, and the doll disappears. Perez warns John that it was Annabelle's spirit that caused his injuries. During another attack, the doll appears to levitate, but Mia sees that the demon is manipulating it. Mia attempts to destroy Annabelle but the demon tells her that she can end the doll's influence by sacrificing her soul to him. John and Evelyn break into the room to stop Mia from jumping out the window with Annabelle. Evelyn takes hold of Annabelle. She decides to sacrifice herself to atone for Ruby's death, and jumps out of the window to her death. The doll disappears.Six months later, the Forms have moved on with their lives. Elsewhere, the mother of one of the girls in the opening scene purchases Annabelle as a gift for her child.On-screen text states that the real Annabelle doll resides in a case in Ed and Lorraine Warren's museum, and that it is blessed by a priest twice a month to keep the public safe from the evil that the doll still possesses. The last shot of the film shows the Annabelle doll in the glass case as the camera lingers on it before it cuts to black.