Camp X-Ray is a 2014 American independent drama film based on the detention facility Camp X-Ray at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp. The film is the directorial debut of Peter Sattler who also wrote the screenplay. It stars Kristen Stewart and Peyman Moaadi with John Carroll Lynch, Lane Garrison, and Joseph Julian Soria in supporting roles. The film premiered on January 17, 2014 at 2014 Sundance Film Festival in the U.S. dramatic competition category[3] and released on October 17, 2014 by IFC Films.The film begins with the September 11 attacks shown on television when Ali Amir (Peyman Moaadi), a Tunisian living in Bremen, Germany arrives home and begins to perform salah when he is kidnapped and taken to Guantanamo Bay detention camp, specifically Camp Delta.Eight years later, Army Private first-class Amy Cole (Kristen Stewart) is placed as a guard at Guantanamo. Upon arrival, she volunteers to the IRF and is cold towards the detainees, despite her contempt for the facility's handling of detainees. During her stay in the camp, Ali immediately notices Amy. Amy is annoyed by his questioning and ignores his advances, for which he angrily throws his feces at her one day. One night, Amy almost has sex with Corporal Randy Ransdell, who also takes an interest to Amy, but leaves after he is too aggressive.The next day, Amy notices pamphlets to prevent suicide in Ali's cell while he is disciplined for his previous actions. She finds Ali's file and discovers that he has a history of self-harm and discipline, becoming more and more violent as time passed. She begins to interact more with Ali and a relationship forms.Eight months later, Ransdell lies to Amy and orders her to watch Ali shower, violating SOP and Arabic social norms. Upon discovering that Ransdell lied, Amy files a report to her commanding officer, Colonel James Drummond. Drummond talks to Ransdell who makes (unspecified) counter-accusations and both enlisted must attend boards of inquiry (not shown nor later referred to).One night, near the end of Amy's tour at Guantanamo, Ali takes a blade hidden in his Quran and tries to commit suicide, but is talked down by Amy, who tells him her name and where she's from (also violations of SOP). At this point, it is clear that her feelings towards the detainee have softened as she is distressed by the possibility of him dying. As Amy leaves Guantanamo teary-eyed, Ali discovers the Harry Potter book he had been hoping for for over two years, finding she had written a note inside.