Fury is a 2014 American war film written and directed by David Ayer. The film stars Brad Pitt, Shia LaBeouf, Logan Lerman, Michael Peña, Jon Bernthal and Jason Isaacs. The film portrays US tank crews in Nazi Germany during the final days of World War II. Ayer was influenced by the service of veterans in his family and by reading books, such as Belton Y. Cooper's Death Traps, about American armored units in World War II and the high casualty rates suffered by tank crews in Europe.Don "Wardaddy" Collier, a battle-hardened U.S. Army staff sergeant in the 2nd Armored Division, commands an M4 Sherman "Easy Eight" tank named Fury and its five-man, all-veteran crew: gunner Boyd "Bible" Swan; loader Grady "Coon-Ass" Travis; and driver Trini "Gordo" Garcia (all of whom have been together since the North African Campaign), as the Allies make their final push into Nazi Germany. When the tank's original assistant driver/bow gunner, "Red", is killed in action, Private Norman Ellison (a fresh recruit trained only as a clerk typist) is assigned to be an immediate replacement.As Fury and its tank platoon move deeper into Germany, Norman's inexperience becomes dangerous: first when he fails to shoot several Hitler Youth child soldiers — who ambush the commanding officer's tank with a Panzerfaust, killing the entire crew, and then later during a skirmish with German anti-tank guns in which he hesitates under fire. Wardaddy is angered at his incompetence, and after the battle, he orders Norman to execute a captive German soldier. When Norman refuses, Wardaddy wrestles a pistol into his hand and forces him to pull the trigger, killing the prisoner and traumatizing Norman. Wardaddy then leads the tanks to capture a small German town, where Norman kills several German soldiers who were burning alive. Gordo tells him he should have "let them burn". While searching an apartment, Wardaddy and Norman encounter a German woman, Irma, and her younger cousin, Emma. Wardaddy befriends the women with food and asks for hot water to clean himself up. Norman starts to play a piano in the home and Emma joins in to sing. Norman and Emma go into the bedroom together and when Irma tries to intervene, Wardaddy stops her, saying that they are young, and alive. Irma agrees. The four then have breakfast, but the rest of Fury's crew barges in, harassing the women and angering Wardaddy and Norman. Wardaddy addresses his crew in a stern manner until a soldier notifies them there is another mission. As the men prepare to leave, a German artillery bombardment strikes the town. Norman finds Emma among the dead, which traumatizes him once more.Wardaddy and his platoon are then ordered to hold a vital crossroads to prevent the enemy from attacking the Allies' vulnerable rear lines. They head to their objective, only to be ambushed by a German Tiger I(Tiger 131). Wardaddy leads the Shermans in a counterattack; their shells fail to penetrate the Tiger's thick frontal armor, and the 8.8 cm KwK 36 cannon on the Tiger knocks out three tanks from the platoon with relative ease. Fury eventually destroys the Tiger by outmaneuvering it and firing into its thinner rear armor, but with the radio damaged, Fury is forced to continue the mission alone. Just as it reaches the crossroads, the tank is immobilized by a landmine. Norman and Grady scope out a nearby barn that is an abandoned medical site for the Nazis. Norman wants to leave but Grady stops him, apologizing for his actions and that he believes Norman is a "good man". Norman accepts the apology and the men return outside.Norman is ordered to scout a nearby hill where he spots a battalion of Waffen-SS panzergrenadiers heading their way. The crew initially wants to flee, but Wardaddy refuses to leave and they decide to stay.The crew disguise Fury so that it will appear knocked out, and then wait for the approaching Germans inside. They share a bottle of whiskey, and Norman is finally accepted by the crew and given his nickname: "Machine". When the Germans arrive, the crew ambush them using both the tank's and their own personal weapons. As ammunition runs out and the battle turns desperate, Grady is killed by a Panzerfaust round penetrating the turret; Gordo is wounded and then sacrifices himself by covering one of his dropped grenades; then a sniper kills Bible and severely wounds Wardaddy. Wardaddy then orders Norman to escape through an emergency hatch in the floor as the Germans drop grenades into the tank. Norman slips out just as they explode, killing Wardaddy. Norman tries to hide as the Germans move on, but is quickly discovered by a young SS soldier. The soldier hesitates and then leaves, deciding not to report him.The next morning, Norman awakens and crawls back into the tank, where he covers Wardaddy's corpse with his coat and takes his revolver as he hears movement outside. Norman awaits his fate, only to discover he is being rescued by US soldiers, who tell him that he is a hero. As Norman is transported away to safety, he looks back at the carnage behind him: the countless dead German troops lying around the battered Fury.