Interstellar is a 2014 British-American epic science fiction film directed, co-written, and co-produced by Christopher Nolan. The film stars Matthew McConaughey, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Chastain, Bill Irwin, Casey Affleck, Ellen Burstyn, John Lithgow, and Michael Caine. Set in a dystopian future where humanity is struggling to survive, it follows a group of astronauts who travel through a wormhole in search of a new home for humanity.Sometime in the 21st century, a series of crop blights on Earth threatens humanity's survival. Joseph Cooper, a widowed former NASA pilot, runs a farm with his father-in-law, son Tom, and daughter Murphy. Living in a post-truth society (Cooper is reprimanded at school for telling Murphy that the Apollo missions did indeed happen), Cooper encourages Murphy to carefully observe and record what she sees. They realize that a pattern of dust on the floor is created by gravity variations and not, as Murphy first believed, by a poltergeist. Decoding it as a set of geographic coordinates, Cooper and Murphy follow them to a secret NASA facility, where they are met by Cooper's former professor, Dr. Brand.Brand reveals that a wormhole mysteriously appeared near Saturn 48 years earlier, opening a pathway to a distant galaxy with potentially-habitable planets. Twelve volunteers traveled through it, each assessing the suitability of a planet as humanity's new home. Volunteers Miller, Edmunds and Mann have sent back encouraging data from planets near a black hole called Gargantua. Brand recruits Cooper to pilot the spaceship Endurance, carrying 5,000 frozen embryos for a "Plan B": to colonize a habitable planet to ensure humanity's survival. The only option for the majority of humankind to survive is his continued work on a "Plan A" – a gravitational theory for propulsion that would allow a mass exodus from Earth. Cooper agrees to go, upsetting Murphy who feels abandoned.Cooper's crew consists of the scientists Romilly, Doyle, and Prof. Brand's daughter Dr. Amelia Brand, as well as the robots TARS and CASE. Traversing the wormhole, they use a lander to investigate Miller's planet, where time is severely dilated (because of its proximity to Gargantua, one hour equals seven years on Earth). Finding only wreckage from Miller's expedition, Brand retrieves Miller's data just before a gigantic tidal wave hits, killing Doyle and water-logging the engines. After returning to Endurance, they discover that 23 years have elapsed on Earth.On Earth, Murphy Cooper is now a scientist and assisting Prof. Brand. On his deathbed, Prof. Brand admits that he never considered Plan A feasible and that Plan B was the only plan. In a recorded video session, Murphy Cooper notifies the crew of the death, accusing Prof. Brand's daughter and her own father of abandoning Earth. Despite Prof. Brand's assessment, she continues working on Plan A, knowing she needs more data on gravitational singularities.With limited fuel, the crew chooses Mann's planet over Edmunds', since Mann is still transmitting. Mann assures the crew that the frozen planet is habitable despite its ammonia-laden atmosphere. While surveying the planet, Mann attempts to kill Cooper, revealing that he falsified the data in the hope of being rescued. He steals Cooper's Ranger and heads for Endurance. While Romilly is killed by a booby trap set by Mann, Brand rescues Cooper with a lander and they race to Endurance. Mann is killed in a dangerous manual docking operation, severely damaging the Endurance in the process. Cooper and Brand use their lander to stabilize the ship.CASE warns Cooper that Endurance is slipping toward Gargantua's pull. Cooper decides to use Gargantua as a gravitational slingshot to propel the ship toward Edmunds' planet, but their proximity to Gargantua means more time will elapse on Earth. To shed weight, Cooper and TARS jettison themselves toward the black hole, so that Brand and CASE can complete the journey. Slipping past the event horizon, Cooper and TARS find themselves inside a tesseract, which resembles streams of bookshelves capable of peering into Murphy's bedroom at different periods in her life. Cooper surmises that the tesseract and wormhole were created to enable communication with Murphy, and that he was her "ghost" all along. Using the second-hand on the watch he gave her before he left, Cooper relays the quantum data Murphy needs to solve the gravitational equation.Following a turbulent ejection from the tesseract, Cooper awakens in a space habitat orbiting Saturn. He reunites with his daughter, now an elderly woman nearing death, who has discovered a solution to plan A. At his daughter's behest, Cooper and TARS leave to rejoin Brand and CASE who are preparing a new human colony on Edmunds' habitable planet.