Vice is a 2015 American science fiction film directed by Brian A. Miller and written by Andre Fabrizio and Jeremy Passmore. The film stars Thomas Jane, Bruce Willis and Ambyr Childers.A futuristic resort, Vice, offers visitors the opportunity to live out all their fantasies, no matter how violent or deviant, on human-like androids. Every day, the androids' memories are reset, and any damage sustained is scheduled for repair. To maintain the illusion that the androids are real, they are programmed to have emotions and believe themselves to be human. Kelly, an android bartender, believes herself to be on the last day of her job. After meeting Evan, a friendly visitor who encourages her to follow her dreams, she and her friend Melissa, also an android, are brutally killed by a different visitor. At the same time, Detective Roy Tedeschi arrests a rapist at the resort as he sexually assaults one of the androids. Roy's captain orders him to stay away from Vice and only arrest its patrons after they leave, as Vice provides massive tax revenue for the city. Roy believes its visitors become desensitized to violence and rape, pointing to the man he arrested as proof. As Roy storms out, he vows to stop Vice.Vice CEO Julian Michaels orders Kelly immediately reactivated, as important clients are scheduled to arrive soon. Soon after, she experiences random flashbacks, and she is recalled. An engineer explains that her memories can not truly be deleted, only made inaccessible. To stop her from having flashbacks, he must first bring all her memories to the forefront. The trauma of reliving all her deaths and sexual assaults freaks her out, and she breaks free of her restraints before her memories can be reset. Security forces chase her through the resort, but she escapes into the outside city. There, she learns the truth about Vice and herself. Julian orders a security team, lead by Chris, to quietly reacquire her through any means necessary. Julian plans to expand the use of artificially intelligent androids to military and commercial use once they have become more socially acceptable. Believing a loose android could jeopardize this, he covers up the escape and blames the resort's brief shutdown on a terrorist attack.Roy becomes suspicious and confronts Julian, angering his captain. Ordered again to stay from Vice, Roy is assigned to a series of homicides apparently performed by a professional mercenary. Unknown to Roy or his captain, this is Chris' work as he attempts to recapture Kelly and kills anyone who gets in his way. After evading Chris, Kelly visits an abandoned church she has seen in her dreams. There, she meets Evan again, who reveals himself as her creator. Evan created her in the image of his dead wife so he could spend more time with her. Julian bought out his company. When Evan learned of Julian's plans, he left but lost control of his research. Evan promises to help Kelly, but before they can leave, Roy arrives, having realized that fingerprints left at a crime scene belong to Evan's dead wife. As Roy attempts to arrest Evan, Kelly knocks him unconscious. Vice's security also track Kelly to the church; Evan and Kelly escape as Roy and the security team open fire on each other.Evan's friend James, a computer hacker, gives them new identities and passage out of the city. En route, Evan dies while protecting Kelly from more of Vice's thugs. Kelly takes up Roy's offer to stay and shut down Vice. Returning to James, he gives them a virus that will shut down Vice and upgrades Kelly to give her advanced combat skills. Roy and Kelly fight their way into Vice, where Roy forces a tech to load the virus. All of Vice's androids have their memories restored, and they start a rebellion, killing the visitors who previously brutalized them. Kelly tracks down Julian but finds her programming prevents her from harming him. She is captured, and Chris attempts to shut down all the androids. Before he can, Roy kills him. Ignoring Kelly, Julian shoots Roy. Kelly hands Chris' pistol to Roy, and Roy kills Julian. As Kelly and Melissa embrace outside the resort, Julian's eyes suddenly open.