The Walking Deceased, originally titled Walking with the Dead, is a 2015 spoof of zombie films directed by Scott Dow and written by Tim Ogletree. It stars Ogletree, Joey Oglesby, Dave Sheridan, Troy Ogletree, Sophie Taylor Ali, Danielle Garcia, Andrew Pozza, and Mason Dakota Galyon as survivors of a zombie apocalypse who attempt to locate a safe haven.A a zombie outbreak is caused by a sushi chef not washing his hands before preparing a meal, gloveless, for homeless dumpster-divers.Twenty-nine days later, some zombies have taken up residence in a hospital; one named Romeo realizes his kind are slowly regaining humanity. He evades survivors Green Bay and Chicago (who is looking for porn); they meet idiotic Sheriff Lincoln (Dave Sheridan), who has woken from a coma; his son Chris accidentally hit a baseball at his head. As a result, he mis-remembers Chris's name as Carl. After learning only LinkedIn remains on computers, Lincoln decides to search for his family; Green Bay and Chicago wish him luck, explaining their group resides in the mall. Lincoln mistakes a child and her father for "clever zombies", killing them and taking their van. Romeo notices an attractive girl named Brooklyn with Green Bay and Chicago, falling for her. Green Bay likes Brooklyn as well, but is too stupid to realize she hates him. Elsewhere, Super Survivor is taking out zombies.Lincoln investigates his home, finding a note from his son; they've taken shelter at his wife's workplace, a strip club. He finds Chris continued running the establishment for survivors (but is now foul mouthed). Due to the stupid patrons, a zombie infects Lincoln's wife Barbie, whom Chris kills. They head to the mall, meeting the other survivors: Harlem (Brooklyn's sister, whose thoughts appear as texts) and Darnell (who thinks his toy crossbow is real, and talks about rumors). Romeo arrives as well, along with zombies that followed him; he saves Brooklyn, who finds him attractive. Convincing everyone Romeo is not a threat, the group begins reorganizing. Ignoring voting, Lincoln and Chicago order the group to pack up to head to "the farm", a haven free of zombies.They find the "Safe Haven" farm, owned by the elderly Reganites, whom the group thinks is hiding their daughter Isaac because she's a zombie. The group later meets Isaac, finding her uninfected; because her parents don't have any way to keep track of the outside world, they don't know about the infection. She keeps it secret, thinking her parents would have heartattacks.Isaac, Green Bay, Brooklyn, Chicago and Romeo get high on marijuana the next day, setting off fireworks that attract zombies. After Chris kills a zombie, Lincoln explains to the couple about the outbreak; however, this goes over their heads as they pay more attention to the drug use than the zombies, who they think are stoners. Harlem snaps at Darnell and Green Bay, revealing she is deaf and can read lips. Green Bay and Isaac take out zombies that make to the house, using weapons and "mind-blowing" questions. Out in the field, Darnell accidentally kills the Super Survivor with a gun, who followed the fireworks. Crushed with grief, Darnell ends up pinned by a zombie; Harlem shoots him in the head, sick of his idiocy.Brooklyn has Romeo bite her so they can be together, only to learn minutes later that a cure has been put in the water supply; she and Romeo spray water into their bite marks, curing them. Romeo admits that he finds Brooklyn attractive but bitchy. Using super soakers and the garden hose, the group spray the zombies with the cure; however, Lincoln still shoots live rounds at them until Chicago stops him.Later, the survivors and the cured have a party, where Chris finally kisses a happy Harlem; Chris also reverts to being kind. Romeo and Brooklyn make out, while Chicago has sex with a cured woman. Green Bay and Isaac head to her room for sex, only to hear the radio announce a meteor the size of Texas is heading to Earth.