Unfriended is a 2014 American found footage supernatural horror film directed by Russo-Georgian director Levan Gabriadze,[4][5][6] written by Nelson Greaves, executive produced by Jason Blum, co-produced by Adam Sidman, and produced by Greaves and Timur Bekmambetov. The film stars Shelley Hennig, Moses Jacob Storm, Renee Olstead, Will Peltz, Jacob Wysocki and Courtney Halverson as high school students in a Skype conversation that is haunted by a student who was bullied and committed suicide named Laura Barns, played by Heather Sossaman.In Fresno, California, a high school student named Laura Barns is relentlessly bullied after a video of her passing out and defecating herself at a party is uploaded to YouTube without her consent, causing her to fatally shoot herself in public, with a video of her suicide appearing on LiveLeak. About one year later, her former best friend Blaire Lily is in a Skype chat with her boyfriend Mitch Roussel, during which they agree to lose their virginities to each other on prom night. Shortly afterwards, they are interrupted by their classmates Jess Felton, Ken Smith, and Adam Sewell. The group notices a user named "billie227" in their chat, who was not invited by any of the participants. After unsuccessful attempts to disconnect the user, the entire group suspects their classmate Val Rommel is pranking them.After they invite Val to their chat, Jess's Facebook page is updated with racy photos of Val at a party. Jess states she did not upload the photos and deletes them, but the pictures reappear on Adam's account. "billie227" then posts a video of Laura Barns recording a video similar to that of Amanda Todd's, which took place in real life. Val calls the police to report online abuse, and signs off Skype. Blaire is sent a link to a screenshot of a past message in which Val told Laura to kill herself. Val is suddenly brought back into the chat, but then is shown falling to the floor. The five classmates soon learn that Val is dead, and that the police have ruled it as a suicide. Ken manages to remove "billie227" from the chat, but "billie227" resurfaces with a camera view from across his room and disconnects his webcam. Shortly after, it reconnects to show Ken being attacked by an unseen force and he is shown shredding his hand in an active blender, then Ken's Skype goes black. It then turns back on, showing Ken smashing the blender and shoving his throat onto the blades, killing himself."billie227" forces the remaining four classmates to play a game of Never Have I Ever, stating that the loser of the game will die. All four classmates are forced to reveal largely personal secrets which put their relationships with each other on the rocks: Jess spread a rumor that Blaire had an eating disorder; Blaire crashed Jess' mother's car while drunk; Mitch reported Adam to the police for selling marijuana, which almost got Adam disowned by his father; Mitch also reveals that he kissed Laura behind Blaire's back shortly before her suicide; Jess stole $800 from Adam and Adam himself offered to trade Jess' life for his own. Adam finally loses his temper and uses the game to force Blaire to reveal that she is no longer a virgin, having had sex with him twice behind Mitch's back, with "billie227" uploading a YouTube video which proves the claim. Mitch retaliates by forcing Adam to admit that he gave a fellow classmate named Ashley Dane roofies at a party, date-raped her when she was unconscious and forced her to get an abortion when he discovered that she was pregnant.Shortly after, Blaire and Adam receive messages sent remotely to their printers. Mitch demands that Blaire reveal her note and threatens to leave the call if she does not. "billie227" messages Blaire and tells her that Mitch will die if he leaves. In a moment of panic, Blaire shows her message on the paper: "If you reveal this note, Adam will die." Adam is forced to shoot himself in the face, and the camera reveals his note: "If you reveal this note, Blaire will die." "billie227" then cuts the power to all the lights in Jess's house and disconnects her video feed. Soon after, Blaire receives a video of Jess freaking out and blood on the door, she also receives a video of Jess with a curling iron forced down her throat."billie227" then messages Blaire and Mitch, wanting them to confess who uploaded the video in the first place. Blaire tries to deny any involvement from Mitch but eventually reveals that he was to blame. Mitch immediately grabs a knife and stabs himself in the eye. "billie227", now unveiled as Laura herself, asks for one more thing. Blaire desperately tries to remind Laura of their friendship while she was alive. Laura then uploads a different version of the video which caused her to commit suicide, revealing that Blaire is the one who recorded it. The video is then uploaded onto Facebook through Blaire's profile feed showing everyone what Blaire had done, resulting in people leaving angry and disgusted comments of Blaire's actions. Laura signs off and leaves her alone for a moment. Then Blaire's bedroom door creaks open and a pair of hands slam her laptop shut. Laura lunges at Blaire, killing her.