Love & Mercy (stylized as love&mercy) is a 2014 American biographical drama film directed and co-produced by Bill Pohlad, co-produced by Claire Rudnick-Polstein and John Wells and written by Michael Alan Lerner and Oren Moverman. The film, deriving its title from the 1988 song by Wilson, focuses on musician-songwriter Brian Wilson, co-founder of the Beach Boys, during the 1960s and 1980s, presenting the film in a nonlinear narrative. Paul Dano and John Cusack star as the young and middle-aged Wilson, respectively, with Elizabeth Banks as Wilson's second wife Melinda Ledbetter, and Paul Giamatti as Wilson's psychotherapist Dr. Eugene Landy.The film alternates between the 1960s and the 1980s, following two periods in the life of Brian Wilson. The early timeline begins with a young Brian Wilson (Paul Dano) suffering a panic attack on an airplane. It is agreed with the rest of The Beach Boys that Brian will no longer tour with them and will instead focus on composition and studio work. Brian innovates in both song writing conventions and studio recording techniques and despite resistance from his abusive father and fellow band members, completes the Pet Sounds album. It is a critical hit, but sales are underwhelming. Brian's drug use increases and he begins to suffer from auditory hallucinations. This time line ends with Brian unemotional and seemingly uninterested in his newborn child's first smile.In the 1980s, an older and heavily medicated Brian (John Cusack) meets Melinda Ledbetter, a Cadillac saleswoman. She begins a relationship with him, but is disturbed by the controlling influence Brian's therapist and legal guardian Dr. Eugene Landy (Paul Giamatti) has over every area of Brian's life. Eventually, she disengages from the relationship, but not before providing evidence to Brian's family that Dr. Landy has been made a beneficiary in his will. This leads to a restraining order being taken out to prevent Dr. Landy from being able to see Brian, who begins a new and more appropriate course of treatment. He seeks out Melinda, and they eventually get married.