Jurassic World is a 2015 American science-fiction adventure film and the fourth installment of the Jurassic Park series. The film was directed and co-written by Colin Trevorrow, produced by Frank Marshall and Patrick Crowley, and stars Chris Pratt and Bryce Dallas Howard. The production companies were Steven Spielberg's Amblin Entertainment, also responsible for the rest of the Jurassic Park franchise, and Thomas Tull's Legendary Pictures. Set 22 years after the events of Jurassic Park, Jurassic World takes place on the same fictional Central American island of Isla Nublar, off the Pacific coast of Costa Rica, where a theme park populated with cloned dinosaurs has operated for ten years. The park plunges into chaos when a genetically created dinosaur breaks loose and goes on a rampage across the island.Following the demise of dinosaur-themed Jurassic Park, a new resort called Jurassic World opens in its place on Isla Nublar years later. The Masrani Global Corporation – owner of the genetics company InGen that creates the dinosaurs – has been operating the successful tourist destination for the past ten years. Brothers Zach and Gray Mitchell visit Jurassic World to spend time with their aunt Claire Dearing, the park's operations manager. Claire, a busy workaholic, assigns her assistant Zara to be their guide, but the boys evade her and explore the resort on their own.Owen Grady, a Navy veteran, has been researching the intelligence of the park's four Velociraptors. InGen security chief Vic Hoskins believes the raptors should be trained for military use despite Owen's objections. Park owner Simon Masrani has Owen evaluate the paddock of the park's new hybrid dinosaur, Indominus rex, before the attraction opens. Owen warns Claire about the danger of raising Indominus in isolation, pointing out its lack of socialization with other animals. When the staff learns that the Indominus appears to have escaped its paddock, Owen and two others enter the enclosure. Able to camouflage itself and mask its heat signature, the Indominus suddenly appears and devours Owen's companions before escaping into the island's interior. Owen orders the Indominus to be killed, but Masrani instead sends a specialized unit to capture it. When most of the unit is killed, Claire orders the evacuation of the island's northern sector.While exploring in a gyrosphere ride, Zach and Gray enter a restricted area. The nearby Indominus attacks and destroys their sphere, but both manage to escape to the ruins of the original Jurassic Park visitor center. They repair an old Jeep Wrangler and drive back to the park resort. While Claire and Owen are searching for the boys, they encounter the Indominus and barely escape themselves. Masrani and two troopers hunt the Indominus by helicopter, but when the Indominus smashes into the park's aviary to escape gunfire, it releases a flock of pterosaurs that collide with the helicopter, causing it to crash, killing Masrani in the process. The pterosaurs then attack the resort itself; in the chaos, Zara is carried off by pterosaurs before falling into the park's lagoon and being devoured by the park's Mosasaurus. Gray and Zach eventually find Owen and Claire at the resort as armed personnel subdue the pterosaurs with tranquilizers.Assuming command, Hoskins orders that the raptors be used to track the Indominus; Owen is forced to accept Hoskins' plan and lead the raptors. Upon reaching the Indominus, the dinosaurs begin communicating with one another. Owen realizes that the Indominus includes raptor DNA, and it becomes the raptor pack's new alpha, taking command away from Owen. Hoskins arranges for chief geneticist Dr. Henry Wu to flee the island by helicopter with dinosaur embryos, in order to protect his research. Owen, Claire, and the boys find Hoskins at the lab packing up more embryos. Hoskins reveals his plan to create miniature versions of the Indominus for use as weapons, but a raptor breaks in and kills him.Owen reestablishes his bond with the raptors before the Indominus reappears. The raptors attack, but are all seemingly killed. Claire releases the park's Tyrannosaurus rex and lures it into a battle with the Indominus. The T. rex is overpowered, and is knocked to the ground. Before the Indominus can move in for a killing blow, Blue, the lone surviving raptor, joins the attack, distracting the Indominus long enough for the T. rex to recover. The raptor and T. rex force the overwhelmed Indominus toward the lagoon, destroying part of the fencing. As the Indominus prepares to attack again, the Mosasaurus leaps out of the water and clamps its jaws on the Indominus before dragging it underwater. The T. rex retreats, followed by the raptor, who turns to acknowledge Owen before leaving. Isla Nublar is once again abandoned, and the survivors are evacuated to the mainland. Zach and Gray are reunited with their parents, while the T. rex roars over Isla Nublar.