Dope is a 2015 American comedy-drama coming-of-age film written and directed by Rick Famuyiwa and produced by Forest Whitaker and Nina Yang Bongiovi. It stars Shameik Moore, Tony Revolori, Kiersey Clemons, Blake Anderson, Zoë Kravitz, A$AP Rocky, and Chanel Iman. The film was also executive produced by Pharrell Williams and co-executive produced by Sean Combs.[3][4]




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (February 2016) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Malcolm Adekanbi and his best friends, Jib and Diggy, are high school "geeks" living in Inglewood, California. Malcolm is confident he will be admitted to Harvard, on his academic ability, but his school counselor berates him since their school is in a run-down suburb in Los Angeles. He suggests Malcolm take college application process more seriously, starting with an upcoming interview with businessman and Harvard alumnus, Austin Jacoby.While biking home, Malcolm is stopped by Dom, a drug dealer who instructs him to invite a girl named Nakia to his party. Nakia tells Malcolm to reply that she will only accept if Malcolm goes, in which Malcolm, Diggy, and Jib as well as Nakia go. During the party, Dom and his crew meet in a room to buy molly but are interrupted by a gang. Hiding behind the bar, Dom finds Malcolm's backpack and fills it with the drugs and a gun, giving Malcolm it and sending him away while cops arrive. Nakia then drives Malcolm home when he offers her help for the GED.The next day, Malcolm discovers the items and an iPhone. Immediately, an unknown man calls, reveals that he knows Malcolm and instructs him to turn over the drugs that day. After school, Dom, in custody, calls and warns Malcolm that he is being lured and to flee. He texts Malcolm an address and tells him to ask for "AJ". Malcolm, Jib, and Diggy flee to the address, a mansion, and are greeted by a young man named Jaleel and his sister Lily. Since their dad, "AJ", isn't home, Jaleel invites them inside and takes Jib and Diggy out for food while Malcolm stays with Lily. She seduces him, finds the drugs and takes a heavy dose. Meanwhile, Malcolm gets a phone call reminding him of the interview. Lily, intoxicated, drives him but passes out at a stop sign, who then runs out of the car and publicly urinates outside. Malcolm takes her car and drives to the meeting.Arriving at Jacoby's office, he notices photos of Dom, Lily, and Jaleel in the man's office and realizes he is AJ. Malcolm relays Dom's instructions to Jacoby, who denies knowledge and subtly indicates that the contents of the bag are Malcolm's responsibility. Jacoby reschedules the interview - if the drugs aren't sold by then, Malcolm won't be admitted to Harvard. Low on options, Malcolm, Jib, and Diggy seek help from a college student they met years ago, Will Sherwood. He sets up an online black-market website to sell the drugs through Bitcoin transactions, which soon goes viral.Malcolm helps Nakia study, where she opens up to him. He then accuses her of being sent by Dom to gather info and pushes her away. The next day, Malcolm asks Will to extract cash from the Bitcoins, and arranges a meeting with a money-laundering gangster named Fidel. With the meeting going as planned, Malcolm leaves with a bag of cash but is assaulted by Bug, who takes the bag. He pulls out a gun, getting the money back.Returning to AJ's office for his interview, Malcolm tells Jacoby that he has sold the drugs but has left a trail leading to Jacoby. Unless Jacoby admits him to Harvard, Malcolm will transfer the Bitcoins to Jacoby's checking account, which will frame Jacoby and lead to his arrest. He then types his college application essay. He describes two students – Student A is a music geek that plays in a punk band and gets straight As, while Student B suffers in the hood and makes money in immoral ways. He then asks, "Which student do you think I am?"Malcolm waits for Nakia at prom, but she does not show at all. Later, Nakia meets Malcolm at his home and thanks him for helping her pass her GED, giving him a pass to Six Flags and kisses him on the cheek. He then goes inside and enters his room to find an envelope from Harvard on his bed. He opens it and looks at the audience before smiling. The end credits feature Malcolm dancing to Digital Underground's Humpty Dance.