Hitman: Agent 47 is a 2015 American action thriller film directed by Aleksander Bach in his directorial debut and co-written by Skip Woods (who also wrote the original Hitman film) and Michael Finch. It is based on the Hitman video game series, developed by IO Interactive, and its main character, a mysterious assassin known only as Agent 47.[4]47 (Rupert Friend) is an "agent", a genetically enhanced supersoldier created decades ago by Doctor Petr Litvenko (Ciarán Hinds), a skilled Ukrainian geneticist who had a crisis of conscience and disappeared before the Agent project's completion, leaving behind his daughter Katia (Hannah Ware). 47 works as a hitman for the ICA (International Contracts Agency) and has spent the last few years tracking down Katia as a means to find her father. His most recent targets were mercenaries led by Delriego (Rolf Kanies) who have been trying to find Litvenko in order to recreate the agent program for their own means.Katia, living in Berlin, has worked tirelessly to find her father, and is plagued by overwhelming anxiety and an acute awareness of everything around her, being able to see and hear things well outside a person's normal sensory radius. Katia is approached at a subway station by a man calling himself John Smith (Zachary Quinto). He tells her that 47 is on his way to kill her, and offers her protection, while alluding that he has information about her father. 47 finds and attacks the pair, who are able to escape, but not before 47 grazes Katia's arm with a sniper bullet. Smith and Katia hide out in a hotel room where the former explains that he is an operative for a corporation known as Syndicate International, and Katia shows him her map of clues to finding her father. Katia asks John to tell her whatever he knows about her father. John responds with Litvenko's age, medical condition (rheumatoid arthritis) and that he speaks several different languages - including Tamil which is quite uncommon. He also says that he has stage 3 lung cancer. With these facts, Katia figures out that her dad would be living in a country which has a warm climate where orchids can grow, has Tamil as one of its official languages and where advanced medical treatments are available. Just as she is about to determine the country, 47 bursts through the door, shoots Smith in the chest, and knocks Katia unconscious. Elsewhere, 47's handler Diana (Angelababy) contacts another Agent with a contract.Once Katia awakens, 47 explains to her that she too, is an agent, only Katia is more advanced than even 47 himself (he even explains that her real name is "quatre-vingt-dix"; which is French for "90"). He shows her how to use her heightened senses in combat, as the two fight against Syndicate forces. They are confronted by Smith, who is revealed to have surgically implanted subdermal body armor, making him impervious to gunshots. Despite all these, Katia is not all pleased for being chosen to be a killing machine. Smith demands to know Litvenko's location. After a brief fight, 47 and Katia manage to escape. Katia makes 47 promise that he won't harm her father and finally reveals Litvenko's location: Singapore.Once there, they find Litvenko, who frequently needs an inhaler to breathe. He apologizes to Katia for abandoning her, saying that he only wanted to keep her safe. He refers to 47 as her "brother", saying that he had left her with family after all. Just then, Syndicate soldiers attack the group and they are forced to flee. During the escape, Litvenko is captured by the Syndicate but not before being slipped an explosive-rigged inhaler by 47.At Syndicate International headquarters, Smith tortures Litvenko under the supervision of syndicate director Antoine LeClerq (Thomas Kretschmann). Litvenko still refuses to reopen the Agent program, while exposing LeClerq's plan to not make Agents as assassins, but as soldiers in a war against the ICA. It is also implied that LeClerq and Litvenko knew each other in the past as rivals. While Katia crashes a helicopter into the building, 47 infiltrates the headquarters disguised as a firefighter. The two fight their way through Syndicate security forces, and 47 is once again confronted by Smith. With Smith being impervious to bullets, 47 defeats Smith by electrocuting him. On the rooftop, 47 and Katia fight their way through the last of the Syndicate's security, but not before LeClerq escapes in a helicopter with Litvenko. In mid-air, Litvenko detonates the inhaler given to him by 47, ensuring that the syndicate will not come after Katia. 47 then calls Diana and confirms his first target (LeClerq) has been eliminated. When Diana asks about the second target (implied to be Katia), 47 drops his phone off the side of the building. As the two prepare to leave, they are confronted by Agent 48, an exact look-alike of Agent 47, who tells them "Diana says 'Hello'" before a gun battle begins between them.A mid-credits scene shows the electrocuted body of Smith, now with white hair and a ghostly pale complexion, as he jolts awake.