Serendipity is a 2001 American romantic comedy film directed by Peter Chelsom, written by Marc Klein, and starring John Cusack and Kate Beckinsale. The music score was composed by Alan Silvestri.




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (May 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Serendipity is a romantic drama about how the hand of fate affects two people who meet by chance at Christmas in New York.During the Christmas season in New York City, Jonathan Trager meets Sara Thomas trying to buy the same pair of black cashmere gloves at Bloomingdale's. They feel a mutual attraction and despite the fact that each is involved in other relationships, they end up sharing dessert at Serendipity 3 together, where Sara reveals her opinion that fate determines a lot of her decisions in life. They say their goodbyes and leave, but both return to the same restaurant a short while later to retrieve missing things.Considering this to be a stroke of fate, Jonathan and Sara decide to spend more time together, and at the end of a magical night they start to exchange phone numbers, but Sara's gets blown into the wind, which she takes as a bad sign. However, she comes up with the idea of putting their names and phone numbers out to the universe, his written on the back of a $5 bill, hers written in the front of a used book entitled, Love in the Time of Cholera that will be sold the following day. If they are meant to be together, they will find the items and contact each other.Several years later, it's revealed that Jonathan is getting engaged to Halley Buchanan. On the same day, Sara (now in San Francisco), comes home to find her boyfriend Lars Hammond, a famous musician, proposing to her. As their respective wedding dates approach, each finds themselves with a case of cold feet resulting in each attempting to find each other again before their respective weddings. Jonathan finds an old receipt for the gloves and uses it to try to find Sara's contact information, and Sara takes a trip to New York with Eve, hoping that fate will bring her to Jonathan.After Eve convinces her to give up the chase, they visit Serendipity. Eve is handed a $5 bill as change, which the audience sees has Jonathan's name and number on the back. When Sara returns to her hotel room, she finds Lars, who followed her to New York, and realizes marrying him would be a mistake.The night of the rehearsal, Halley gives Jonathan a copy of Love in the Time of Cholera as a gift, and Jonathan finds Sara's name and number inside. He and Dean fly to San Francisco to find her, but upon arriving, they see Sara's sister, Caroline (who resembles her) through the window fooling around with her boyfriend. Jonathan gives up and realizes that maybe the reason he's chasing ghosts is that he doesn't really want to marry Halley.On the plane home the next morning after breaking up with Lars, Sara realizes she has mistakenly taken Eve's wallet. But when paying for a headset from it, she discovers the $5 bill with Jonathan's name and number on it. She gets off the plane, tracks down Jonathan's address and goes there. Upon hearing from his neighbors of his wedding, she rushes to the Waldorf Astoria, and she's ecstatic to find out that Jonathan called off the wedding. Eve encourages Sara to find Jonathan.Jonathan wanders Central Park, and comes upon Sara's jacket on a park bench. He uses it for a pillow while lying in the middle of the rink. He's for some reason brought the one black cashmere glove. As he's gazing up at the falling snow, a cashmere glove falls on his chest.Realizing he has them both, he looks up to see where it came from and sees Sara, who has come to retrieve the jacket she'd left at the rink. They walk to each other, and introduce themselves to each other formally for the first time. The film concludes with Sara and Jonathan at Bloomingdale's, enjoying champagne on their anniversary at the same spot where they first met.