Lamb is an American drama film, written and directed by Ross Partridge. The film was adapted by the novel of the same name, by Bonnie Nadzam. The film stars Ross Partridge, Oona Laurence, Jess Weixler and Tom Bower.The film opens with David Lamb (Ross Partridge) visiting his sick and dying father Walter Lamb (Ron Burkhardt). After visiting his father, David goes to his motel room, where he is currently living. David's father dies. After attending his father's burial, David ends up in a parking lot "in a particularly depressed-looking corner of Chicago," smoking, where Tommie (Oona Laurence) is sent by her friends to ask David for a cigarette. When asked, David gives her a cigarette, and Tommie shows him her friends. Tommie asks David to scare her friends by pretending to kidnap her. He tries to prove a point to her and brings her home.Back at David's work his boss, Wilson (Joel Murray) gives David his condolences, and insists that David take some time off work. David runs into Tommie at the parking lot, and offers to buy her lunch. Back at Tommie's home, her mother Linda (Lindsay Pulsipher), and her mother's boyfriend Jesse (Scoot McNairy), ask where she has been. The next day, Tommie and David hang out again; David asks Tommie to go on a camping trip for a week. He tells her he would bring her back before any one would start to worry. At a hotel, David tells Tommie he wants her to think if she really wants to stay, or go back home. He tells her this might look like a kidnapping due to their age differences so she can leave at any time. Tommie decides to stay.At a truck stop, Melissa (Jennifer Lafleur) sees Tommie crying. Tommie lies and says her name is "Emily." Tommie tells David she wants to go home; he tells her he could take her home, like he said he would earlier. The next day, David and Tommie hang out by a lake. While there at the lake, Foster (Tom Bower), a neighbor of theirs at the cabin, tells the two of them that they are on private property. David tells him he's with his niece Emily aka Tommie. Returning from the mountains, Tommie asks David if she could have a root beer; David asks Tommie to get him a beer; she asks if she can have some of the beer, and he agrees she can have one sip of it. Foster walks into the room, where he sees Tommie holding the beer. David pretends to yell at "Emily" and apologizes to Foster what happened. Foster warns David there are unfriendly neighbors nearby who don't like kids. One morning, David notices a car approaching the cabin; he takes puts Tommie in a closet and tells her not to be seen. The car turns out to be driven by Linny (Jess Weixler) who came to give David company.David tells Tommie to run to the shop quietly as she can. Later that night, Tommie asks David why Linny called him "David" instead of "Gary". He tells her, it's to "protect her/us". While David is talking to Tommie one morning, Linny walks in, and almost catches Tommie. Linny tells David she's going to get mattresses from the other room; David lies, since Tommie is hiding in that room, by telling her a fake ghost story about "Emily". Tommie is seen running from the cabin, to Foster's house. She approaches the cabin and sees David and Linny having sex. David notices that Tommie is watching. David tells Tommie they are going to head back home. Once they arrive at their hometown, the two emotionally say goodbye.The film ends with Tommie chasing after David as he drives away.