Norm of the North is a 2016 American computer-animated comedy-adventure film directed by Trevor Wall and written by Daniel R. Altiere, Steven M. Altiere, and Malcolm T. Goldman. It features the voices of Rob Schneider as the title character, Heather Graham, Ken Jeong, Colm Meaney, Loretta Devine, Gabriel Iglesias, Michael McElhatton, and Bill Nighy. The UK version features James Corden. It was co-produced by Assemblage Entertainment, Splash Entertainment and Telegael, and distributed by Lionsgate.Norm the polar bear is the son of the King of the Arctic. In his youth, he develops the ability to speak to humans, a trait shared by his Grandfather. Because of this, he is made an outcast from the other animals, only being accepted by Socrates, a wise bird, and Elizabeth, a female polar bear whom Norm is in love with.Years later, Norm's grandfather has disappeared and human tourists are filling the Arctic. Socrates shows Norm and three Arctic lemmings a luxury condo that has been installed on the ice. Inside this condo is Vera a representative for wealthy developer Mr. Greene. After Norm saves Vera from the avalanche, Mr Greene tells her to find an actor to play a polar bear for their campaign. Socrates convinces Norm and the three lemmings to stow away on a ship to New York City.In the city, Norm, pretending to be an actor dressed as a bear, auditions for Mr. Greene's commercial and is taken to dinner by Vera. Mr Greene, who realizes that Norm is a polar bear, suspects that Norm has come to free his grandfather, who Greene had captured. During a public incident involving Mr Greene trying to shoot Norm in the restaurant, Norm subdues Greene, gaining the attention of the media and heightening Greene's approval ratings. Greene decides to hire Norm as his mascot.Before going on a television show, Norm meets Vera's daughter Olympia, who tells Norm to raise Greene's approval ratings and then speak out against him to save the Arctic. Norm's popularity heightens the approval ratings, but Greene sabotages Norm's plan by playing recorded dialogue stating that Norm supports Greene's developments.Defeated, Norm is comforted by Vera and Olympia, who reveals that Greene is developing more homes to install in the Arctic. Norm and the lemmings discover that Mr Greene is bribing a high-ranking member of the Polar Council, and exposes this to Pablo, one of Greene's investor. Vera resigns her position and is hired by Pablo, while Norm and the Lemmings chase the truck holding the houses.Greene sends another truck carrying Norm's grandfather, and Norm is captured as well. After being freed by the lemmings, Norm and his grandfather catch up to the boat carrying the houses to the Arctic, and are able to detach the houses. However, Norm is separated from his grandfather and the lemmings and is knocked unconscious.Norm awakens in the Arctic and reunited with the lemmings and the other animals, who reveal that his grandfather was not found. Because of his heroism, Norm is crowned the King of the Arctic, before his grandfather arrives at the ceremony. Meanwhile, Mr. Greene is humiliated after his plan is exposed, and Vera and Olympia are happy with Pablo as their new boss. Norm and Elizabeth have three cubs and the film ends with them and the lemmings watching the stars.