Dirty Grandpa is a 2016 American comedy film about a lawyer who drives his grandfather to Florida during spring break. The film was directed by Dan Mazer and written by John Phillips. It stars Robert De Niro, Zac Efron, Aubrey Plaza, and Zoey Deutch.Jason Kelly is a lawyer who works for his father. Jason's grandmother dies, and after the funeral, his Army veteran grandfather, Dick, asks Jason to drive him to Boca Raton, Florida. Jason is getting married to his controlling fiancée, Meredith, in one week, but decides to take his grandfather anyways.On the way there, the two meet Jason's old photography classmate, Shadia, and her friend, Lenore. Dick and Lenore are instantly attracted to each other. Dick tells the girls that he is a professor and that Jason is a photographer. They all go their separate ways, but Dick convinces Jason that they should meet the girls at Daytona Beach, Florida, because Dick wants to have sex with Lenore.At Daytona Beach, they meet up with the girls and the girls' friends, Cody and Brah. Jason parties, drinks, and smokes crack that he gets from a drug dealer named Pam. They next day, he wakes up almost naked on the beach and gets taken to jail. Dick bails him out, and the two visit Dick's old Army friend in a nursing home. They meet the girls again and stay at their place. Jason and Shadia go out to visit her friends, and she tells him that she is leaving soon and going to live on a ship for a year.That night, Jason plans on telling Shadia who he really is, but before he can, Cody does an online search on him and tells Shadia that Jason is already engaged. Jason then gets caught with drugs and is thrown into jail again. The next day, Dick bails him out and tells Jason that his real reason for the trip was to convince Jason not to go through with the wedding. Jason leaves Dick and drives back home.During his wedding rehearsal, Jason says that he cannot marry Meredith. He, Dick, and Pam use Pam's ice cream truck to catch up with the bus that Shadia is on as she is leaving. Jason and Shadia kiss, and he gets on the bus with her. Dick goes to Boca Raton and finds Lenore there waiting for him, and they have sex. Dick and Lenore get married and have a baby, and Jason and Shadia are named the godparents.