Kung Fu Panda 3 is a 2016 Chinese-American[5] 3D computer-animated action-comedy martial arts film produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the third installment in the Kung Fu Panda franchise, and the sequel to Kung Fu Panda 2 (2011). In the film, Po enters the panda village and reunites with his birth father and other pandas, but problems arise when a villainous spirit warrior, named Kai, returns to the mortal realm and steals chi from the kung fu masters. To prevent Kai from taking chi from all kung fu masters and pandas, Po forms the army of pandas to battle Kai's jade minions and Po must become a master of chi to defeat him and save his friends.In the Spirit Realm, Grandmaster Oogway fights against an adversary named Kai, who has defeated other kung fu masters in the realm and taken their chi, turning them into small jade charms. Oogway willingly gives in and also has his chi stolen, but not before warning Kai that the Dragon Warrior, Po, will stop him. Kai takes this as a challenge to steal the chi from the Dragon Warrior and returns to the mortal realm.Meanwhile, Master Shifu announces his retirement from teaching to begin his training to master chi and passes the role of teacher to Po. Excited at first, Po discovers that teaching kung fu is not as easy as he expected, as the Furious Five members Tigress, Crane, Mantis, Viper, and Monkey are injured as a result. Po is demoralized as a teacher, which makes him question who he really is and whether he is the Dragon Warrior. In response, Shifu advises Po that instead of trying to be a teacher, he should try to be himself.Po heads home to his adoptive father, Mr. Ping, at his noodle shop, where a panda named Li Shan breaks Po's dumpling-eating record. They both soon learn that Li is Po's biological father and they bond with each other, much to Ping's jealousy. After introducing Li to Shifu and his friends, the valley is attacked by jade zombies controlled by Kai and resembling past Kung Fu masters, several of them long dead. The team then learns through research that Kai was Oogway's old friend who fought with him as brothers-in-arms long ago. When Oogway was injured, Kai carried him until they reached a secret village of pandas, who healed Oogway using their chi. The pandas taught Oogway how to give chi, but when the power-hungry Kai decided to drain it from them to increase his power, Oogway defeated him and banished him to the spirit realm. To defeat Kai, Po must learn to master chi himself, which Li offers to teach him by going to a secret panda village. Po, Li and Mr. Ping travel to the village while Shifu and the Furious Five stay behind where Shifu sends Crane and Mantis to track the jade zombies and find Kai. Although Po is eager to learn chi, he first learns the relaxed life of a panda in the village, which he feels grateful to be a part of.Crane and Mantis meet up with Master Bear, Master Croc and Master Chicken, whose villages were also attacked by jade zombies and all their chi stolen by Kai. After Shifu and the rest of the Furious Five learn that many Kung Fu masters are missing, Kai arrives at the Jade Palace with a zombified Crane and Mantis. Kai, along with the jade Crane and Mantis, overpowers Shifu and the rest of the Five, allowing him to destroy the Jade Temple and take the chi of everyone except Tigress, who warns the pandas of Kai's intention to steal their chi. Afraid, Li and the pandas prepare to run away. When Po demands that Li teach him how to use chi, he confesses that he does not know how, and that he lied so he wouldn't lose his son again. Hurt over his father's misdirection, Po isolates himself and trains vigorously to confront Kai. Mr. Ping admits to Li that he was initially worried Po would be taken away from him, but realized that Li being a part of Po's life simply added to his happiness. Tigress confronts Po and tells him that he cannot defeat Kai without continuing to discover the secret of chi, during which Po confesses that the experience has him once more doubting his potential. Li and the villagers, having decided to stay, ask Po to train them so they can fight back. Realizing what had previously made him fail as a teacher, Po agrees and teaches them using their everyday activities as their assets.Kai arrives and sends his jade zombie minions to capture Po, but they are held off by the pandas, Ping and Tigress, distracting Kai. The plan works in holding off the army, but when Po tries to use his signature Wuxi finger hold on Kai to send him back to the Spirit Realm, Kai reveals that it can only work on mortals, not a spirit warrior like himself. Kai gains the upper hand in their fight, but Po uses the Wuxi finger hold again on himself while gripping Kai, transporting them both to the Spirit Realm. They fight again, with Kai regaining the advantage to subdue, and he begins petrifying Po. Using what they learned from Po and about who they are, Li, Tigress, Mr. Ping and the pandas are able to use their chi to revive and empower him. After realizing who he really is, finally mastering chi in the process, Po harnesses the chi to create a giant dragon figure which he uses to overload Kai, causing him to explode, defeating him and restoring all the fallen masters to normal and transporting them back to the mortal world.In an ethereal golden pond, Grandmaster Oogway appears to Po, and informs him his journey has come full circle, revealing his role by selecting Po as Dragon Warrior because of his descent from the ancient pandas, and his embodiment of the yin-yang. He also reveals his role in alerting Li to Po's survival, and declares Po his true successor. By choice, Po wields a mystic jade yin-yang staff bestowed by Oogway to return to the mortal world. He and his extended family all return to the Valley, where they continue practicing kung fu and their chi under the guidance of Po and the Furious Five.