Pride and Prejudice and Zombies (stylised as Pride + Prejudice + Zombies) is a 2016 British-American historical comedy horror film based on Seth Grahame-Smith's 2009 novel, Pride and Prejudice and Zombies, which parodies the 1813 novel Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen. The film is directed by Burr Steers, who wrote the adapted screenplay, and stars Lily James, Sam Riley, Jack Huston, Bella Heathcote, Douglas Booth, Matt Smith, Charles Dance, and Lena Headey.In early 19th century England, the Bennet sisters—Elizabeth, Jane, Kitty, Lydia, and Mary—have all been trained in the art of weaponry and martial arts in China at their father's behest so they can defend themselves from the zombies. Mrs. Bennet only wants to see her daughters married off to wealthy suitors. The Bennets attend a country dance also attended by the rich Bingley family, where the young and handsome Bingley falls for Jane. Charles Bingley has inherited £100,000 (£5.9 million today) – attracting Mrs. Bennet's attention as a desirable suitor for her daughter. When zombies attack the ball, the Bennet sisters fight them off, and Colonel Darcy, a friend of Bingley's and skilled zombie-killer, with property that pays him £10,000 annually (£590,000 today), becomes smitten with Elizabeth. On the way to the Bingleys later, Jane is attacked by a zombie and catches a fever. Darcy orders her confined in fear that she may have been bitten, but she successfully recovers.The Bennets are visited by the overbearing Parson Collins, who proposes to Elizabeth, but states that she must give up her life as a warrior, something she refuses to do. Elizabeth meets a charming soldier named Wickham, and arranges to meet him at another ball. She travels with him to a church that is filled with zombies who feed on pig brains instead of human brains, keeping their behaviour relatively normal. Wickham believes that with these new civilised zombies, humans can coexist peacefully with them. He asks Elizabeth to elope with him, but she backs off. Elizabeth learns that Darcy convinced the Bingleys to leave to keep Bingley away from Jane. When Darcy proposes to Elizabeth, having fallen in love with her, she expresses outrage at his actions and fights him.Darcy later writes Elizabeth a letter to apologise. He reiterates that he separated Jane and Bingley for fear that Jane only wanted to marry Bingley for his wealth, having overheard Mrs. Bennet drunkenly mention it. He also exposes Wickham's true nature: he and Wickham were childhood friends but Wickham may have murdered Darcy's father, squandered the inheritance he did receive and tried to elicit additional money from Darcy's estate, then tried to elope with Darcy's little sister for her fortune. Elizabeth learns that Wickham has taken Lydia and London has been overrun with zombies. Darcy saves Lydia and learns that Wickham is actually using the 'civilised' zombies to create a zombie army which has overrun London based on Wickham's planning, and will rule the country. He stops him by giving the zombies human brains, which turns them savage.While fighting, Darcy stabs Wickham's chest, revealing him to have been undead all along, staying civilized by consuming pig brains. Elizabeth saves Darcy from being killed by Wickham. As the two ride across the bridge, the army destroys it to keep the zombies from crossing over from London. Darcy is injured in the explosion, and Elizabeth tearfully admits her love for him. After Darcy recovers, he proposes to Elizabeth again, and this time, she agrees. The two have a joint wedding with Bingley and Jane.In a mid-credits scene, Wickham leads a horde of zombies toward the wedding celebration with the Four Horsemen of the Zombie Apocalypse riding behind him.