Deadpool is a 2016 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name, distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the eighth installment of the X-Men film series. The film was directed by Tim Miller from a screenplay by Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick, and stars Ryan Reynolds in the title role alongside Morena Baccarin, Ed Skrein, T. J. Miller, Gina Carano, Leslie Uggams, Brianna Hildebrand, and Stefan Kapičić. In Deadpool, Wade Wilson hunts the man who gave him mutant abilities, but also a scarred physical appearance, as the antihero Deadpool.Wade Wilson is a dishonorably-discharged special forces operative working as a mercenary in New York City when he meets escort Vanessa. They become romantically involved, and a year later she accepts his marriage proposal. But when Wilson is diagnosed with terminal cancer, he leaves Vanessa so she does not have to watch him die.A mysterious recruiter approaches Wilson, offering an experimental cure for his cancer. He is taken to Ajax and Angel Dust, who inject him with a serum designed to awaken latent mutant genes. They then subject him to days of torture to induce stress and trigger the mutation, but without success. Wilson discovers Ajax's real name, Francis, and mocks him for it. In response, Ajax leaves Wilson on the verge of asphyxiation in a hyperbaric chamber for a weekend, causing Wilson to develop a mutant healing factor that cures his cancer but leaves him severely disfigured with burn-like scars over his entire body. He escapes from the chamber and attacks Ajax, but relents when told that his disfigurement can be cured. Ajax subdues Wilson and leaves him for dead in the burning laboratory.Wilson survives the ordeal and attempts to return to Vanessa, but is afraid of her seeing his new appearance. After consulting his best friend Weasel, Wilson decides to hunt down Ajax and cure his disfigurement. He becomes a masked vigilante and adopts the name "Deadpool", moving into the home of an elderly blind woman named Al. Deadpool questions and murders many of Ajax's men until one, the recruiter, reveals Ajax's whereabouts. Deadpool confronts Ajax and a convoy of armed men on an expressway, killing everyone but Ajax. He demands a cure to his disfigurement, but is interrupted by the X-Man Colossus, who wants Deadpool to become a hero and join the X-Men, and his trainee Negasonic Teenage Warhead. Taking advantage of the distraction, Ajax escapes. He goes to Weasel's bar and learns of Vanessa.Deadpool and Weasel attempt to get to Vanessa first, but Ajax kidnaps her and takes her to a decommissioned helicarrier in a scrapyard. Deadpool convinces Colossus and Negasonic to help him, and the trio attack the site. While Colossus and Negasonic battle Angel and several soldiers, Wade fights his way to Ajax. After Angel defeats Colossus, Negasonic attacks her and accidentally destroys the equipment stabilizing the helicarrier. Deadpool protects Vanessa from the falling ship, and Colossus carries Negasonic and Angel to safety. Ajax survives and attacks Deadpool again, but reveals that there is no cure for Deadpool's disfigurement. Despite Colossus's pleading, Deadpool kills Ajax, though he promises to try and be more heroic moving forward. Though Vanessa is angry at Wilson for leaving her, she reconciles with him.