The Witch (stylized as The VVitch, subtitled A New-England Folktale) is a 2015 historical period supernatural horror film written and directed by Robert Eggers in his directorial debut and stars Anya Taylor-Joy, Ralph Ineson, Kate Dickie, Harvey Scrimshaw, Ellie Grainger and Lucas Dawson. The film follows a Puritan family encountering forces of evil in the woods beyond their New England farm.In 17th century New England, a man named William is threatened with banishment from a Puritan plantation alongside his wife Katherine, daughter Thomasin, son Caleb, and fraternal twins Mercy and Jonas, due to a difference in interpretation of the New Testament. The family decides to leave the church and the plantation it controls and builds a farm by the edge of a large, secluded forest far from the Puritan settlement. Katherine soon gives birth to her fifth child, Samuel. Thomasin is playing a game with Samuel when he abruptly disappears. He is revealed to have been kidnapped by a witch, who crushes his body to pulp and uses it to make a flying ointment for her body.[6]Katherine, devastated, spends her days crying and praying. William takes Caleb hunting in the forest and confides to his son that he traded Katherine's silver cup for hunting supplies. On the farm, the twins play with the family's goat, Black Phillip, who, they claim, speaks to them. That night, Katherine questions Thomasin about the disappearance of her silver cup while implying Thomasin was responsible for the disappearance of Samuel. After the children retire to bed, they overhear their parents discussing sending Thomasin away to serve another family.Early the next morning, Thomasin finds Caleb preparing to hunt in the forest. She forces Caleb to take her with him by threatening to awaken their father. Their dog gives chase to a hare and Caleb follows on foot, leaving the horse to throw Thomasin off unconscious. Caleb becomes lost in the woods and eventually stumbles upon the disemboweled corpse of his dog. Wandering farther into the woods, he discovers a moss-covered hovel. A seductive young woman appears at the door, lures Caleb towards her and grabs him with her wrinkled hand. Meanwhile, Thomasin awakens and reunites with her father, who is searching for her and Caleb. Katherine confronts Thomasin about taking Caleb into the woods and William reluctantly admits that he sold Katherine's silver cup.That night, Caleb is found outside in the rain, naked and delirious from an unknown illness. Katherine suggests her son's mysterious ailment is due to witchcraft and prays over Caleb. The next day, Caleb suffers a violent seizure and expels a small apple from his mouth. After an intense fit of apparent demonic possession, he passionately proclaims his love for Christ before dying.The twins accuse Thomasin of witchcraft and in retaliation, she reveals their conversations with Black Phillip. Enraged, William boards both Thomasin and the twins inside the goats' stable. After dark, the twins and Thomasin awaken to find a hideous naked old woman drinking a white goat's blood. Meanwhile, Katherine is overjoyed by a vision of Caleb and Samuel's return. She begins breastfeeding the infant which is revealed to be a black raven pecking at her exposed and bloody breast.The next day William finds the stable destroyed, the goats eviscerated, the twins missing, and an unconscious Thomasin lying nearby with blood-stained hands. As Thomasin awakens, Black Phillip fatally gores William before her eyes. Both Thomasin's scream and the commotion awaken the unhinged Katherine, who blames Thomasin for her husband's death and the twins' disappearance and tries to strangle her. Thomasin grabs a nearby billhook and kills her in self-defense.That night, Thomasin, desperate, urges Black Phillip to speak to her. The goat responds in human tongue and suddenly transforms into a darkly handsome man. He convinces her to sign her name in his book, offering her the sights of the world and the life she wants to live. Thomasin agrees, signs the book, and wanders naked into the forest with Black Phillip, now back in his goat form. She discovers a coven of witches dancing around a bonfire. The witches begin to levitate as a laughing Thomasin joins them and rises above the trees.