Zootopia (known as Zootropolis in some regions[6]) is a 2016 American 3D computer-animated buddy mystery comedy-adventure film[7] produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 55th Disney animated feature film. The film was directed by Byron Howard and Rich Moore, co-directed by Jared Bush, and stars the voices of Ginnifer Goodwin, Jason Bateman, Idris Elba, Jenny Slate, Nate Torrence, Bonnie Hunt, Don Lake, Tommy Chong, J. K. Simmons, Octavia Spencer, Alan Tudyk, and Shakira. The film details the unlikely partnership between a rabbit police officer and a red fox con artist as they uncover a conspiracy involving the disappearance of savage predator inhabitants of a mammalian metropolis.In a world populated by anthropomorphic mammals, Judy Hopps from rural Bunnyburrow fulfills her childhood dream of becoming a police officer in urban Zootopia. Despite being the police academy valedictorian, Judy is delegated to parking duty by Chief Bogo who doubts her potential because she is a rabbit. On her first day, she is hustled by a con artist fox duo Nick Wilde and Finnick.The next day, Judy abandons parking duty to arrest Duke Weaselton, a weasel who stole a bag of plant bulbs known as Midnicampum holicithias. Bogo reprimands her, but Mrs. Otterton enters Bogo's office pleading for someone to find her husband Emmitt, one of fourteen predators who have gone missing. When Judy volunteers and Assistant Mayor Dawn Bellwether praises the assignment, Bogo reluctantly gives her 48 hours to find Otterton on the condition that she resigns if she fails.After determining that Nick was a suspect seen in Otterton's last known sighting, Judy blackmails him into assisting her by covertly recording his confession to tax evasion with her carrot pen. They track Otterton to a limousine owned by crime boss Mr. Big, who reveals his florist Otterton went "savage" – reverted to a feral state – and attacked his chauffeur Manchas. At his home, Manchas mentions that Otterton had mentioned "night howlers" after the attack. Moments later, Manchas himself turns savage and chases the pair. Judy saves Nick by trapping Manchas and calls the ZPD for help. When Bogo and other police arrive, however, Manchas has vanished. Bogo demands Judy's resignation, but Nick chastises Bogo and courageously reminds him she still has 10 hours to solve the case. As the pair leaves, Judy learns from Nick that he was bullied as a child when he tried to join a local branch of the Ranger Scouts for being a fox and became a con artist, believing that he would be stereotyped as untrustworthy regardless.At City Hall, Bellwether offers Judy and Nick access to the city's traffic-camera system. They discover Manchas was captured by wolves which Judy surmises are the "night howlers." They locate Otterton and the other missing predators - who have all gone savage - imprisoned at Cliffside Asylum, where Mayor Leodore Lionheart is keeping them hidden from the public while a scientist tries to determine the cause of their strange behavior. Lionheart and those involved are arrested for false imprisonment and Bellwether is replaced as the new mayor.Judy, praised for solving the case, is now friends with Nick and asks him to join the ZPD as her partner. However, she inadvertently upsets him at a following press conference by suggesting a predatory biological cause for the recent savage behavior, and he leaves angrily. Her comments cause tension between predators and prey throughout all of Zootopia. Guilt-ridden, Judy quits her job.Back in Bunnyburrow, Judy learns that night howlers are not wolves, but actually the toxic flowers Midnicampum holicithias that have severe psychotropic effects on mammals. After she returns to Zootopia and reconciles with Nick, they confront Weaselton, who tells them the night howler bulbs he stole were for a ram named Doug. They find Doug in a laboratory hidden in the subway tunnels, developing an illegal drug made from night howlers, which he has been shooting at predators with a dart gun.Judy and Nick obtain the dart gun and the serum as evidence, but before they can reach the ZPD, Bellwether confronts them and steals the evidence, revealing herself as the mastermind behind a prey-supremacist conspiracy. Judy and Nick are trapped in a pit after Nick refuses to abandon Judy who has been injured. Bellwether shoots a serum pellet at Nick to make him kill Judy, and summons the ZPD for help, but Judy and Nick have replaced the serum pellets in Bellwether's gun with blueberries. Enraged, Bellwether threatens to frame Judy and Nick for the attacks, but Judy has already recorded Bellwether's confession to being the mastermind on her carrot pen. Bogo and the ZPD arrive and Bellwether is arrested.In the news coverage that follows, Lionheart denies the knowledge of Bellwether's plot and states that his imprisonment of the savaged predators was a "wrong thing for the right reason." With true cause of the epidemic identified, the savage animals are cured with a night howler antidote and Judy rejoins the ZPD. Nick graduates from the Zootopia Police Academy as the city's first fox police officer and becomes Judy's partner.