10 Cloverfield Lane is a 2016 American science fiction psychological thriller film directed by Dan Trachtenberg, produced by J. J. Abrams and Lindsey Weber and written by Josh Campbell, Matthew Stucken and Damien Chazelle. The film stars John Goodman, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, and John Gallagher, Jr., and is the second film in the Cloverfield franchise. The film was developed from a script titled The Cellar, but under production by Bad Robot, it was turned into a spiritual successor of the 2008 film Cloverfield. The film follows a young woman who, after a car crash, wakes up in an underground bunker with two men who insist that an event has left the surface of Earth uninhabitable.Following an argument with her fiancé, a woman named Michelle leaves New Orleans. Driving through rural Louisiana that night, she hears radio news reports of blackouts in major cities. Her car is suddenly struck and rolls off the road. She awakes chained to a wall in a concrete room. A man named Howard unlocks the door and says he is going to keep her alive. After she unsuccessfully tries to ambush him, he explains that he saved her life by bringing her to his underground bunker because there has been a massive attack − possibly by Russians, North Koreans, or Martians − and everyone is dead. He tells a doubtful Michelle that she cannot leave because the nuclear or chemical fallout will poison the air for one or two years.Once she is calmer, Howard takes Michelle on a tour of the well-stocked bunker and she meets the other inhabitant, Emmett, who found his way there after seeing a red flash outside. Howard shows Michelle to the hatch and through the window points out two dead pigs, evidence of the contamination outside. Michelle also sees Howard's truck and regains the memory of it forcing her off the road.During the trio's first dinner together, Michelle incapacitates Howard and steals his keys to the hatch. As she is about to escape, Leslie, Howard's former neighbor − who has many severe skin lesions − appears, begging to be let inside. Michelle realizes Howard was right and returns the keys. Howard confesses that he had struck Michelle's car in a panic to get to his bunker, and took her in.As time passes, the trio begin adapting to life underground, developing a family-like relationship. However, Howard has little tolerance for Emmett and only perceives Michelle as a little girl. Howard opens up about his daughter who is "not with us anymore". When a ventilator fails, Michelle climbs through an air vent to fix it, being the only one small enough. She discovers a second hatch leading outside, padlocked closed and with the word "HELP" scratched on the inside. Michelle and Emmett secretly discuss the inconsistencies in Howard's story, realizing that the "daughter" was actually a local woman known by Emmett who went missing two years prior. They realize that he abducted and murdered her. They secretly begin fashioning a makeshift Hazmat suit to escape the bunker.Howard discovers several of his tools missing and interrogates Emmett and Michelle, threatening to kill them by immersion in a barrel of perchloric acid. Emmett claims that he was trying to make a weapon to get Howard's gun and that Michelle knew nothing. Howard shoots Emmett in the head, killing him. Howard eventually finds the biohazard suit and becomes angry; Michelle flees, discovering Emmett's body dissolving in the acid. Michelle kicks the barrel over and Howard falls into the liquid, which burns him and ignites an electrical fire. Michelle dons the suit and escapes through the ventilation shaft.Outside, she finds birds flying and removes the biomask. Looking around, she sees a tentacled biomechanical craft floating in the distance and realizes that the attack was actually an alien invasion of Earth. Suddenly, the bunker explodes from the fire, drawing the craft's attention. Michelle is stalked by an alien creature and after the craft releases a green gas, she is forced to put the biomask back on. She takes shelter in Howard's truck but the craft's tentacles pick it up and attempt to consume her. Finding the components for a Molotov cocktail, she throws it into the maw of the craft which explodes, dropping the truck.Michelle recovers keys from Leslie's body and drives away in Leslie's car. On the radio she hears of successful human resistance efforts, with the eastern coast of North America having been liberated. Survivors are instructed to evacuate north while those able to aid the fight are directed to Houston. Being at a crossroads, Michelle decides to head for Houston, where lights are moving above the city and larger craft loom nearby.