The Divergent Series: Allegiant is a 2016 American action adventure film directed by Robert Schwentke with a screenplay by Bill Collage, Adam Cooper, and Noah Oppenheim. It is the first of two cinematic parts based on the novel Allegiant, the final book in the Divergent trilogy by Veronica Roth, and the third installment in The Divergent Series.[4][5]




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (February 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Tris and Four rescue Caleb and try and escape. They ran beyond the X-WALL. The group is ambushed by Edgar. The soldiers take the group to the Bureau of Genetic Welfare, a secret space station where they learn that years ago the U.N believed that society's problems were caused by "damaged genes". In an attempt to create a better society, they began to erase people's genes, with disastrous results. They set up "experiments" in an attempt to repair this mistake, establishing isolated cities across the remains of the world.Tris and Four are tested by Matthew and Nita to verify and study their Divergence. Tris is shown to be truly Divergent, but Four's genetic structure indicates that his genes are fabricated, and that he is a synth. Caleb and Peter are assigned to surveillance teams that monitor Chicago. Matthew then brings Tris to the leader of the Bureau, David (Jeff Daniels). David gives Tris a device that allows her to view her foster mother's memories, and sees that her mother was manufactured before volunteering to join the Chicago experiment out of dedication to the project. In return for his help in restoring peace to Chicago, Tris agrees to help David wipe out the synths, who claims that only the council he reports to have the power to intervene.Meanwhile, Four and Christina train with Nita and join the Bureau's military force. They join the military on a rescue mission to a nearby wasteland village, though Four becomes mistrusting of the Bureau's intentions after realizing that they are going there to kidnap and convert them to synths by deliberately fabricating their genes . Four also attempts to warn Tris of the Bureau's intentions, but they are interrupted by a video call from david.Caleb warns Four of a rapidly escalating conflict back in Chicago between Johanna's group of Allegiants and Evelyn's factionless. Four appeals to Tris for her to return to Chicago with him to end the bloodshed, but she decides to go with David. David agrees to reinsert Four back in Chicago, escorted by Matthew and some Bureau soldiers. Once in the air, Matthew quietly reveals to Four that the flight is a trap and he is meant to be "de-serviced" (incinerated) . A skirmish breaks out and Four defeats all of the soldiers, though the zeppelin crashes and explodes as a result. Matthew betrays David by giving him a multitool to override the camo wall and the perception filters. Four proceeds to Chicago while Matthew remains behind to be rescued by the Bureau and warn Tris.Meanwhile, Tris and David meet with the council. Tris disagrees with the council's objectives and criticizes how they have done nothing to stop the violence in Chicago. The council responds that David had the power to intervene whenever he desires, revealing that he has lied to her from the beginning. During the return flight to the Bureau, Tris ends their partnership. Upon her return, she gathers Caleb and Christina in David's hovercar to return to Chicago, and Nita helps them escape.Four is captured by the factionless and confronts Evelyn to end the violence. Tris, Caleb, and Christina arrive to find the city tearing itself apart at the opening stage of a full assault by the Allegiant. David makes a deal with Peter in exchange for Peter's promotion and inserts him into Chicago to convince Evelyn to deploy a hidden Bureau stockpile of gas to wipe the memories of the attackers and force a peace in her favor, to which she agrees. Peter takes her to a vault.Tris and Christina fight through the factionless and arrive at the vault, having rescued Four along the way. At the vault door, Four convinces Evelyn to stop the gas attack, as he would not remember who she was if she carried it out. She folds and stops the release, and is de-serviced by a frustrated Peter. Peter gloats in his victory until the same gas starts releasing inside the vault as well. Realizing David has betrayed him, Peter opens the vault so Tris and Four can stop the gas release and flees back towards the cloak wall, as Four says he will find and de-service Peter.Caleb arrives and aids Tris in destroying the gas dispersion hub, stopping the release. The group gathers atop the Erudite building as they watch the stolen shuttle fly back towards the Bureau, heavily laden with explosives. Tris transmits a message to the whole world, revealing to them the existence of the Bureau and that Chicago was an experiment of the Pure. Her message to the Bureau is that Chicago is no longer their experiment, but the home of its citizens. Caleb detonates the explosives at the end of the message, tearing a massive hole through the cloak wall and revealing the portal to the station to each other. The group then gazes at the Bureau in the distance, with David standing behind Tris via his machine.