Everybody Wants Some!! is a 2016 American comedy film, written and directed by Richard Linklater, about college baseball players in 1980. The film stars Will Brittain, Zoey Deutch, Ryan Guzman, Tyler Hoechlin, Blake Jenner, Glen Powell, and Wyatt Russell. The film had its world premiere at South by Southwest on March 11, 2016,[4] and was theatrically released in the United States on March 30, 2016, by Paramount Pictures. The film underperformed at the box office, but was acclaimed by critics, who praised its ensemble cast and Linklater's direction.In Texas in the fall of 1980, college freshman Jake (Blake Jenner) – a hotshot pitcher in high school – moves into the house he will be sharing with other members of the fictional Southeast Texas Cherokees college baseball team and meets several of his new teammates, including his roommate Billy (Will Brittain) who has been nicknamed "Beuter" because of his Southern accent. He joins Finnegan (Glen Powell), Roper (Ryan Guzman), Dale (Quinton Johnson), and Plummer (Temple Baker) cruising the campus by car, looking to meet female students. Stopping to chat with two women moving into their apartment, upperclassmen Roper – an unapologetic hound-dog – and Finnegan – adopting a false feminist tone – both "strike out" with them, but one of them – Beverly (Zoey Deutch) – comments that she likes Jake ("the quiet guy in the back seat"); he makes a note of her apartment number.At a team meeting in the house, the baseball coach introduces the new players, which include Jake, Plummer, Beuter, Brumley (Tanner Kalina) – all freshmen – and two transfer students: Jay (Juston Street), recruited for his professional-level pitching, and Willoughby (Wyatt Russell), a bearded philosopher-stoner. The coach cites two rules: no alcohol in the house, and no women upstairs, but the team disregards them, later hosting a drunken party, with several team members taking women up to their bedrooms. Jake tries to take a woman he's met to the downstairs room they'd set aside for sex, but it's occupied, and Beuter refuses to leave their room so Jake can't use it. The next morning, Beuter leaves temporarily for home, concerned that his girlfriend is pregnant.Later, the team go out drinking and "cruising chicks" together, first to the local disco. Finnegan's patter about his "average penis", intended to impress women with his lack of ego, is interrupted when Jay's arrogant and racist remarks provoke a fist fight with one of the bartenders, and they are all ejected. Sending Jay home, they change their clothes and instead go to a western-themed bar to end their night on a high note. The next day, at the house, Willoughby shares his marijuana, music, and philosophy with the freshmen, professing his love for Pink Floyd while stating his extreme distaste for Van Halen. That afternoon while walking around with several of his teammates, Jake happens upon Justin (Michael Monsour), a former teammate from high school who has embraced punk subculture. He invites them to a punk concert, and with Jake's encouragement they go, briefly putting on yet another identity. Jake leaves flowers and a note on Beverly's apartment door that night before he and the rest of the team have a massive frat party at their house.The next morning, Beverly calls him and they quickly agree to meet. She explains that she's a performing-arts major; Jake answers only that he's a baseball player, based on advice given to him by Finnegan. At the team's first unofficial practice session, Jay upsets the rest of the team by pitching to them aggressively. McReynolds (Tyler Hoechlin), the team's captain and best player, puts Jay in his place when he hits a home run off of him, which causes Jay to throw a tantrum. The coach unexpectedly shows up and calls Willoughby off the pitcher's mound. It is later revealed that Willoughby is 30 years old, and has been fraudulently transferring to new colleges so he can continue playing ball and enjoying the student lifestyle.Beverly invites him to come to "Oz", a costume party thrown by performing-arts students every Fall. Jake mentions the party to his teammates and tries to tell them they wouldn't enjoy it, but they cajole him into taking them. Although they initially don't fit in well with the "artsy" atmosphere and activities, they do their best to hit on the women there and eventually warm up to their surroundings. Finnegan is ridiculed by his friends for adapting his patter to pretend to be into astrology, and Jake takes part in an improvised Alice in Wonderland-themed take on The Dating Game. Jake continues to get close to Beverly and they end up spending the rest of the night together.The next morning, the semester begins and Jake and Beverly walk together from her apartment, parting to go to their separate classes. Two of the team – who know that Jake didn't return home the night before – razz him for it. He runs into Plummer in his classroom, and they settle in for their first lecture. Their history professor enters and writes the phrase "Frontiers are where you find them" on the chalkboard. As their first ever college class officially begins, Plummer and Jake fall asleep.