The Huntsman: Winter's War[5] is a 2016 American fantasy adventure film based on characters from the German fairy tale "Snow White" compiled by the Brothers Grimm, as well as "The Snow Queen" by Hans Christian Andersen. Both a prequel and sequel to Snow White and the Huntsman, the film takes place before and after the events of the first film. The film is written by Craig Mazin and Evan Spiliotopoulos and is the directorial debut of Cedric Nicolas-Troyan, who acted as visual effects supervisor on the first film.Evil sorceress Queen Ravenna's powers allow her to know that her younger sister Freya, whose powers have not emerged, is not only engaged in an illicit affair with nobleman Andrew, but is also pregnant with his child. Sometime after Freya gives birth to a baby girl, Freya discovers that Andrew has murdered their child and, in a grief-fueled rage, Freya kills him with her sudden emergence of ice powers.Freya abandons the kingdom and builds herself a new kingdom. Ruling as the Ice Queen, Freya orders children to be abducted so they can be trained to avoid the pain of love (as she suffered), and to be an army of fearsome huntsmen to conquer for her. Despite the training, two of her best huntsmen, Eric and Sara, grow up and fall in love, secretly marry, and plan to escape together. Freya discovers their secret and confronts them, creates a massive ice wall to separate them, then casts Eric out of her kingdom after first forcing him to watch as Sara is killed by their fellow huntsmen.Seven years later, and after Ravenna's death, Queen Snow White falls ill after hearing Ravenna's Magic Mirror calling her. Because of its dark magic, she ordered it to be taken to Sanctuary, the magical place that sheltered Snow White during the events leading to Ravenna's death, so the mirror's magic could forever be contained. Snow White's husband, William, informs Eric that the soldiers tasked with carrying the Mirror went missing while en route to the Sanctuary. Eric realizes that he is being watched by Freya through magic. Knowing the magic of the mirror can make Freya even stronger, Eric agrees to investigate, but reluctantly allows Snow White's dwarf ally Nion and his half-brother Gryff to come along.While travelling to the last known location of the soldiers, the trio are attacked by a group of Freya's huntsmen, but are rescued by Sara. Sara reveals that she had been imprisoned by Freya the entire time, only to escape recently. While Eric had been made to see Sara die, she had been made to see him running away rather than fighting to help her. Eric convinces her that Freya had conjured these visions, eventually gets Sara to join with him and the dwarves to thwart Freya. The quartet is ensnared in a trap set by she-dwarves Bromwyn and Doreena. They convince the she-dwarves to help them find the Mirror, and the two lead them to the goblins that guard the mirror. The party fight off the goblins and retrieve the Mirror.As the group nears Sanctuary with the Mirror, they are ambushed by Freya and her huntsmen. Freya reveals Sara had been loyal to her all along, and Sara was using her companions to find the Mirror. In the ensuing chaos, Nion and Doreena are turned into ice statues, and Sara fires an arrow into Eric's chest on Freya's order, killing him. Freya departs with the Magic Mirror, but she is unaware that Sara intentionally missed so Eric can live. Back in her palace, Freya discovers that Ravenna had become one with the Mirror when Snow White vanquished her, and that her spirit is free thanks to Freya. Ravenna then usurps Freya's rule by ordering Freya's huntsmen to exact revenge on Snow White's kingdom, without consulting Freya.Eric infiltrates the ice palace with help of Gryff and Bromwyn. He attempts to assassinate Freya, but is stopped by Ravenna. When Freya realizes that Sara didn't actually kill Eric, she reluctantly sentences them both to death because of Ravenna's manipulation. However, Eric is able to convince a few huntsmen to rebel, claiming the love of brethren. Ravenna begins to kill the huntsmen. Freya, realizing that her "children" are being killed, protects them with an ice wall, separating the huntsmen from the sisters. As Eric, Sara and the rebelling huntsmen climb over the wall to fight Ravenna and Freya, the two sisters argue over the icy kingdom. Freya discovers that Ravenna ultimately caused the death of Freya's child so she could remain the fairest of them all, so Freya finally turns against her sister. Freya is impaled by Ravenna, but with her remaining strength Freya freezes the Magic Mirror. Eric shatters the Mirror, thus destroying Ravenna. As Freya dies from her wounds, she smiles at the sight of a vision of her old loving self, and gladly witnesses Eric and Sara together.With Freya's death, those who had been imprisoned by Freya's magic are set free, including Nion and Doreena, while a mysterious golden bird flies overhead.In a post-credits scene, a woman in a red dress with a crown on her head (presumably Snow White) is seen from behind. The aforementioned bird flies and lands on the balcony next to her.