Love & Friendship is a 2016 period comedy film written and directed by Whit Stillman. Based on Jane Austen's epistolary novel Lady Susan, written ca. 1794, the film stars Kate Beckinsale, Chloë Sevigny, Xavier Samuel, and Stephen Fry. The film follows the exploits of the wry and calculating Lady Susan as she pursues the wealthy and hapless Sir James for marriage originally intended for her daughter, though she eventually marries him herself. Although adapted from Lady Susan, the film was produced under the borrowed title of Austen's juvenile story Love and Freindship [sic].In the 1790s, the recently widowed and relatively young Lady Susan Vernon seeks a suitably wealthy match for her only daughter, Frederica, and a similarly wealthy husband for herself, in order to renew the state of her fortunes. After being unceremoniously turned out of the Manwaring estate due to her dalliance with the married Lord Manwaring (pronounced "Mannering"), she and her companion Mrs. Cross head to Churchill, the country home of her brother-in-law, Charles Vernon and his wife, Catherine Vernon (née DeCourcy). Lady Susan frankly discusses her plans during visits to her trusted friend, Mrs. Johnson.Catherine and her brother, Reginald DeCourcy, are aware of Lady Susan's long-standing reputation as a determined and accomplished flirt. But under the influence of the amiable but dull Charles, Reginald agrees to keep an open mind, and soon finds himself enchanted with Lady Susan. When Reginald's father, Sir Reginald DeCourcy, catches wind of this, he travels to Churchill to warn Reginald against marrying Lady Susan lest the family name be sullied. But Reginald says their relationship is not romantic. However, it is not long before he and Lady Susan have reached an understanding.Meanwhile, Lady Susan's daughter, Frederica, who has been attending a boarding school which her mother cannot afford, runs away and is then expelled. Frederica arrives at Churchill and, shortly thereafter, is followed by Sir James Martin, a man who is both very wealthy and very foolish. For example, upon arrival at Churchill, he explains that he struggled to find the estate as he had been looking for "church hill", a church and/or a hill. Later, he mentions the "Twelve Commandments" and when told there are only ten, he wonders which two should be disregarded.While in London, Lady Susan's relationship with Lord Manwaring suddenly explodes into scandal. Lady Manwaring discovers that the illicit lovers are meeting in private and appeals to her guardian, Mr Johnson, to confront them. He refuses, and Reginald arrives with a letter from Lady Susan to Mrs Johnson, which Lady Manwaring snatches and reads. The contents reveal Lady Susan asking her friend Mrs Johnson to keep Reginald busy while she (Lady Susan) is with Lord Manwaring. Narrowly missing a departing Lord Manwaring, Reginald confronts an unruffled Lady Susan, who tells him that they cannot be married after all.After returning to his sister's home, Reginald DeCourcy falls in love with Frederica, and the two are married. It then transpires that Lady Susan has married Sir James, who confides to Catherine his joy at the prospect of becoming a father, having been informed on the day after his marriage that his new wife was with child. Sir James goes on to speak fondly of his newfound friend and long-term house-guest, Lord Manwaring, who was invited to stay by Lady Susan, and with whom he shares a love of hunting. Lord Manwaring, says Sir James, is someone who always enjoys hunting game of whatever merit, both "large and small".