The Purge: Election Year is a 2016 American dystopian action horror film written and directed by James DeMonaco and starring Frank Grillo, Elizabeth Mitchell and Mykelti Williamson. It is the sequel to 2014's The Purge: Anarchy and is the third installment in The Purge franchise.


This article needs an improved plot summary. (June 2017)

The film begins with Charlene Roan bound and gagged and forced to watch as her parents and brother are killed on Purge night. 18 years later, Roan is now a senator and campaigning for the US Presidency under the premise of halting Purge nights. Former police sergeant Leo Barnes is now head of security for U.S. Senator Roan, and is often disapproving of her methods of mingling with the crowd. The New Founding Fathers of America, or NFFA, view Roan as a threat to their rule and decide to revoke immunities on top government officials in order to eliminate her from play on Purge night. Watching the Senator's debate on television are deli owner Joe Dixon, his assistant Marcos, and Emergency Medical Technician Laney Rucker. Marcos is hopeful of Senator Roan winning the presidency, but Joe is more pessimistic, believing that the system would prevent her from winning. A pair of teenage girls enter the store and begin trashing and stealing, only to be stopped by Joe. Undeterred, the girls proceed to mock Joe until Laney steps in, at which point they surrender their stolen goods and retreat from the store. A sudden phone call for Joe reveals that his insurance premiums for Purge coverage has gone up, which he cannot afford. Since the Purge would begin that very night, Joe decides to stake out and guard his store, despite Marcos' and Laney's pleas not to. Senator Roan, meanwhile, has decided to wait out the Purge from her home rather than a secure location in order to secure the popular vote of the common people, much to Barnes' annoyance. He orders her home locked down and surrounded by security, accompanied by Chief Couper and Eric. Since this could be the very last Purge, it attracts many international citizens to participate, thus possibly making it the most dangerous Purge to date. On the night of the Purge, Joe guards his store and is joined by Marcos, and together they manage to repel an attack by the teenage girls by wounding the leader. Laney is riding around the city in an ambulance rendering medical care to the wounded. Barnes and Senator Roan wait out the Purge in her home, well guarded and protected by security forces. However, they are betrayed by Chief Couper and Eric, who signals to a paramilitary force that covertly wipes out the security forces. Barnes is able to see the attack in progress and escorts the Senator to safety, but is wounded in the process. He detonates a bomb in the house, killing Eric and Chief Couper as well as several paramilitary operators. Barnes and the Senator attempt to seek shelter elsewhere, but are ambushed by a gang of Russian Purgers and taken captive. Before they are about to be executed, Joe and Marcos shoot the gang dead, having seen the pair's plight from the store's rooftop. As they take shelter in Joe's store, the teenage hooligans return with more reinforcements, intending to raze the store to the ground. The four are rescued by the timely arrival of Laney, who runs over the leader with her ambulance and shoots the remaining hooligans. The group believes they are safe driving around in the ambulance until the paramilitary ambushes them with a helicopter, forcing them to seek refuge underneath a highway overpass. There, they are confronted by a large group of Purgers, and would have been killed if not for Joe giving the Crips gang whistle. Barnes deduces that they were tracked by the bullet lodged in him, and manages to extract it. In exchange for Laney helping the gang leader's son, the Crips fool the paramilitary forces by planting the bullet elsewhere, and wipe out the latter's ground team.