The Secret Life of Pets is a 2016 American computer-animated comedy film produced by Illumination Entertainment. It is directed by Chris Renaud and co-directed by Yarrow Cheney and written by Brian Lynch, Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio.[5][2] The film stars Louis C.K., Eric Stonestreet, Kevin Hart, Steve Coogan in a dual role, Ellie Kemper, Bobby Moynihan, Lake Bell, Dana Carvey, Hannibal Buress, Jenny Slate, and Albert Brooks.A Jack Russell Terrier named Max lives with his owner Katie in a Manhattan apartment. While she is at work during the day, he hangs out with other pets in the building: tabby cat Chloe, pug Mel, dachshund Buddy, and budgerigar Sweetpea. One day, Katie adopts Duke, a large mongrel from the pound, leaving Max jealous because of her divided focus on Duke. Enraged by Max's attitude towards him, Duke tries to abandon Max in an alley, but they are both attacked by cats led by Sphynx cat Ozone. They remove both dogs' collars and leave them to be caught by Animal Control. Duke fears that he will be put down if he goes back to the pound.They are rescued by a white rabbit named Snowball, the leader of "The Flushed Pets" – a gang of sewer-dwelling animals who hate humans because their owners mistreated them. After Max and Duke pretend to despise humans as much as they do by saying they killed their owners, the Flushed Pets invite them to join. Before they can prove their loyalty by allowing a viper to bite them, Snowball learns from the cats that Max and Duke are domesticated. The two dogs escape the sewers and board a ferry to Brooklyn, inadvertently killing the viper in the process; Snowball vows to kill them and leads the Flushed Pets after them.Gidget, a white Pomeranian with a desperate crush on Max, discovers he is missing and recruits a red-tailed hawk named Tiberius to find him. After looking over the city for Max, Tiberius returns carrying Ozone, whom Gidget coerces into telling what he knows about the dogs. Gidget and Tiberius then enlist Mel, Buddy, Chloe, guinea pig Norman, Sweetpea, and Pops, an old basset hound to begin searching Manhattan. The group encounters Snowball, who vows to kill them as well, and Norman is captured as the rest of Gidget's team flees.In Brooklyn, Max and Duke raid a sausage factory for food. Duke tells Max about his previous owner, Fred, an elderly man who adopted him as a puppy and loved spending time with him. One day, Duke got lost while chasing a butterfly and was caught by Animal Control, but Fred never came to claim him. Max convinces him to visit Fred's house in a nearby neighborhood, confident Fred will still love him and take him back. When they arrive, though, they learn from a resident cat that Fred died. Heartbroken, Duke accuses Max of attempting to get rid of him and barks at the new homeowners who had just returned to the house, who call Animal Control. The handlers catch Max, but Duke interferes long enough for Max to escape and ends up being captured instead.While trying to rescue Duke as he follows the Animal Control van, Max is attacked by Snowball who tries to kill him. However, when his gang is captured, Snowball realizes that he and Max must work together to rescue them. They drive a city bus into the van on the Brooklyn Bridge, stopping traffic. The Flushed Pets encircle Max, unaware of his partnership with Snowball, but Gidget and her team save him. When Gidget is using her kung-fu fighting skills, Max starts to fall in love with her. The van rolls away; the Flushed Pets escape, but the van falls into the East River with Duke inside. Max is unable to get the keys to Duke's cage, so Snowball jumps into the river to retrieve them, allowing Max and Duke to escape the sinking van. Once out of the river, Snowball realizes how good being heroic feels.The entire group returns to the apartment block by pig-driven taxi. Max expresses his love for Gidget, who returns his affection. Snowball and the Flushed Pets then come up with a new plan to annihilate all humans, but Snowball is suddenly adopted by a little girl named Molly. At first, Snowball resists, but gives in and lets himself become a domesticated pet. The remaining Flushed Pets return to the sewers, the domesticated pets return to their homes and embrace their owners, and Max and Duke finally reunite with Katie, sparking a true friendship.In a mid-credits scene, Buddy and Mel show up in disguise at a party in Leonard's apartment. Leonard's owner returns and Tattoo crashes to the floor on the chandelier.