Pete's Dragon is a 2016 American fantasy comedy-drama adventure film directed by David Lowery, written by Lowery and Toby Halbrooks, and produced by James Whitaker. The film is an adaptation of the 1977 musical film of the same name written by Malcolm Marmorstein. The film stars Bryce Dallas Howard, Oakes Fegley, Wes Bentley, Karl Urban, Oona Laurence, and Robert Redford.[3] The film tells the story of an orphaned feral boy who befriends a dragon in the Pacific Northwest, and the ensuing repercussions of their discovery by the town's local residents.In 1977, Pete, a five-year-old boy, is on a road trip with his parents when their car flips off the road trying to avoid a deer. Pete’s parents are killed, but Pete survives and is chased into the forest by a pack of wolves. He is rescued by a dragon with green fur, yellow eyes, and huge wings. Pete names the dragon "Elliot" after his favorite book about a puppy of the same name, and takes to him as a father figure.Six years later in 1983, Pete, now 11, spots a lumberjack crew chopping down trees near his home. Natalie, the daughter of the site foreman, spots and chases him. When Natalie accidentally falls from a tree, her screams attract her father Jack and his girlfriend, park ranger Grace Meacham. Pete tries to run away, but Gavin, Jack's brother, accidentally knocks him unconscious. After realizing that Pete has vanished, Elliot stumbles around looking for him and ends up knocking over a tree near the lumber camp, leading Gavin to organize a hunting party to find him. Meanwhile, Pete wakes up in a local hospital, which he escapes in an effort to return to the forest. Before the police can catch the boy, Grace finds Pete and convinces him to come to her house by promising to take him to the forest the next day.Gavin and his men locate Pete and Elliot's treehouse, but when they try to search it, Elliot reveals himself and scares them away. He follows them to town trying to find Pete. After seeing Pete settling in with Grace's family, he leaves. After Pete gives Grace a drawing of Elliott, she shows her father, known as Mr. Meacham. He said that he discovered the same dragon as a young man. He advises her to trust Pete, and to find Elliot.The next day, Pete, Grace, Natalie, and Mr. Meacham travel to the forest to meet Elliot. A group of hunters led by Gavin surprise Elliot and tranquilize him, locking him up in Jack's warehouse. Before the authorities can inspect the dragon, Pete and Natalie free him from his chains and escape on a lumber truck with Mr. Meacham.Angered, Gavin sets up a roadblock at the bridge to stop them. When Elliott tries to fly, he crashes into the truck, damaging its brakes and it goes through the barricade. Confused and frightened, Elliot perches on top of the bridge and starts breathing fire at the police. The bridge begins to collapse under the intense heat, causing Grace and Jack's truck to fall through. Gavin tries to save the pair from falling to their deaths. Elliot emerges from the ravine with Grace and Jack riding safely on his back. With a firefighting helicopter approaching, Pete decides to flee with Elliot back to the woods.Pete pleads with Elliot to stay with him so he can protect him from his attackers. However, Elliot concludes that as long as they stay close together, Pete will always be in danger. He encourages Pete to return to stay with Grace and Jack. Pete is reluctant but trusts the dragon and returns to live with Grace and Jack as his new family.In the years that follow, Grace and Jack marry and adopt Pete as their son. Not only has Elliot slowly faded from the town's memory, but Gavin has learned and moved on from the experience. Pete and his family eventually go on vacation, and see that Elliot is finally reunited with his fellow dragons.