Morgan is a 2016 British-American science fiction horror film directed by Luke Scott in his directorial debut and written by Seth Owen.[4][5] The film features an ensemble cast, including Kate Mara, Anya Taylor-Joy, Toby Jones, Rose Leslie, Boyd Holbrook, Michelle Yeoh, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Paul Giamatti.Lee Weathers, a stern and self-contained young woman, is a risk-management specialist for genetic-engineering company SynSect. One of their experiments is a human hybrid called Morgan, who is smarter than humans, and who has an advanced-growth rate (appearing about 19, despite only being 5 years old). Lee is called in to investigate after Morgan used a pen to stab scientist Dr. Kathy Grieff in the eye. Over dinner with the team of eight researchers, Lee (who is revealed to be fluent in Chinese) and lead scientists Dr. Lui Cheng and Dr. Simon Ziegler discuss an incident in Helsinki where 21 researchers were killed.Psychologist Dr. Alan Shapiro arrives to evaluate Morgan, and when he taunts her, she kills him. Lee decides that Morgan is too unpredictable, and must be terminated. The scientists, who have raised Morgan from birth, have grown attached to her and cannot bring themselves to kill her. As Lee is about to do so, the scientists inject her with sedative and imprison her in the glass cell in which Morgan had been held. They plan to escape with Morgan, who instead kills most of them, while Ziegler commits suicide.In the scientists' house, Cheng is recording an apology for the failure of the experiment, in which she hints that the company was developing people to be used as weapons. Morgan was their latest experiment, in which they attempted to add more human emotions, only to find that the result was harder to control. After Cheng has finished, Morgan enters the room and suffocates her. Lee escapes the cell and rushes to stop Morgan, able to initially match her in a short yet intense fight. Morgan breaks away, takes a car, and flees with Dr. Amy Menser, who Morgan says is the only one of the scientists who was a real friend to her.Lee and Skip Vronsky pursue the pair. Lee locates the vehicle they were using and instructs Skip to wait for her by their car, continuing alone. Morgan and Lee have a final showdown, seemingly matched in strength and speed. Finally, Morgan knocks down Lee, and as she falls, Lee is impaled on the branch of a fallen tree. Morgan begins to flee again, but Lee catches up and kills her. Lee shoots the surviving handlers, Menser and Vronsky, getting rid of any witnesses to what happened.The executives at SynSect are sitting in a conference room while calmly discussing what happened. It's revealed that Lee is actually an earlier, less emotional prototype of a human hybrid weapon, and they conclude that she is a superior model to Morgan. Elsewhere, Lee is shown making a gesture with her hands, the same way that Morgan had when Dr. Shapiro asked her how she felt about injuring Dr. Grieff.