Robinson Crusoe (released in North America as The Wild Life) is a 2016 Belgian-French 3D computer-animated adventure comedy film directed by Vincent Kesteloot and Ben Stassen and written by Lee Christopher, Domonic Paris and Graham Weldon. The film is loosely based on Robinson Crusoe by Daniel Defoe, but from the point of view of the island's animals.On a tiny isolated South Pacific Island, a Scarlet Macaw named Mak and his friends, including an echidna named Epi, a chameleon named Carmello, a tapir named Rosie, a kingfisher named Kiki, an old goat named Scrubby, and a pangolin named Pango live the perfect life: blue skies, beautiful turquoise water, and lots of delicious fruit and crunchy insects. But every day is the same and Mak is really bored. Convinced there is more than just water over the horizon, he dreams of leaving his little paradise and exploring the world. Meanwhile, an English man named Robinson Crusoe and his dog, Aynsley have booked passage on a ship in order to explore the islands. During a very violent tropical storm at night, the two are accidentally locked in the ship's hull along with a pair of embittered cats, Mal and May, while the crew escapes with their lives; leaving the latter behind. During the storm, Mak and his friends try to save Scrubby from falling to his death, which nearly goes bad, while trying to seek shelter in a cave on the high grounds from the storm.Washing ashore on the island, in the morning, Crusoe begins to take stock of the remaining supplies while the animals, unsure of what to make of the new arrivals, hide out on the beach. Mak, seeing his chance to get off the island, convinces the others to hide while he keeps an eye on them. Unfortunately, the next day, he is attacked by Mal and May, having also survived the storm. Luckily, Aynsley manages to drive them off and Crusoe takes Mak aboard the wreckage to recover from his wing injury from the attack. He renames the bird Tuesday (after their second day on the island) and Aynsley convinces him that he and Crusoe are friends.Determined to take control of the island and make the human pay for the years of bad treatment they had to endure, Mal and May trick the other animals into believing Crusoe is going to eat Mak. They have them attack Crusoe while they go after Mak and Aynsley in order to cover their tracks. In the ensuing chaos, Aynsley is pinned under a door as the wreckage begins to catch fire. Mak makes it out in time, but Aynsley dies in the explosion, which strands Mal and May on "Curse Island", a rock off the coast inhabited by countless bugs that the islanders view as a death sentence.After Crusoe mourns Aynsley's death, Tuesday leads a grieving Crusoe to the others, having realized the cats' deception, in an attempt to cheer him up. Slowly but surely, the islanders drop their guards and begin helping him adjust to life on the island by providing him with fruits for food and helping him build a tree house, a "pipeline" for the fresh water supply, and a watchtower in case of any passing ships. However, Kiki becomes increasingly annoyed by the others' willingness to adapt to Crusoe's lifestyle as the months go by. Yet, sometimes, Crusoe seems upset by the dwindling possibility of a rescue. One afternoon, Kiki, worked up, flies out near the remains of the wreckage; lamenting about their lives with Crusoe, until Mal and May, with multiple litters of youngsters and having survived with nothing to eat but bugs on the rock, manage to get back on the main island from the wooden plank remains of the ship and decide to put an end to Crusoe and his friends' lives and wreak havoc on their little piece of Eden.Despite Mal and May's best efforts, the islanders manage to drive them back momentarily. Realizing the cats won't stop harassing them, at night, Tuesday leads them to the watchtower and, with his friends' help, traps them inside while the animals knock it down along with the cats into the sea. However, their victory is short lived when a fire set by May earlier endangers Crusoe, who was knocked unconscious in the previous fight. Tuesday manages to get him out, but Crusoe becomes caught in some rigging and is rendered unconscious again by a falling wooden plank.Complicating matters is that the fire attracts the attention of a group of pirates led by Long John Silver, who drive off the "wild beasts" trying to save Crusoe on the same night and "rescue" him the next morning. Crusoe manages to placate them with a fictionalized version of what happened at the expense of the captain forcing him into the crew and refusing to return him back home to England due to the fear of being hung from the gallows; despite considering Crusoe's story as nothing more than yarn. During his story-telling, Tuesday, who followed Crusoe onto the boat, tells the true story of what really happened to a pair of mice named Rufus and Cecil.A poorly planned escape attempt by Crusoe results in a hectic chase. Tuesday rescues him (by tricking the pirates with a perfect voice imitation of their captain momentarily) and the mice and make their way back to the island while the cats, who snuck onto the ship on a jerry-rigged life raft made out from the remains of the watchtower, which Crusoe later uses to row back to the island, are taken in by the pirates.During the credits, stills of the animals' lives with Robinson Crusoe along with Rufus and Cecil are revealed as they repair the tree house while readjusting to their lives on the island and the cats adjusting to life with Long John Silver and his crew.