Blair Witch is a 2016 American found footage supernatural horror film directed by Adam Wingard[4] and written by Simon Barrett. It is the third official film in the Blair Witch series and a direct sequel to the 1999 film The Blair Witch Project, ignoring the events of its 2000 follow-up film Book of Shadows: Blair Witch 2, given the events of that film being a film within a film.[a] Blair Witch stars James Allen McCune, Callie Hernandez, Brandon Scott, Corbin Reid, Wes Robinson, and Valorie Curry. The film, shot in a found footage style, follows a group of college students and their local guides who venture into the Black Hills Forest in Maryland to uncover the mysteries surrounding the disappearance years ago of Heather Donahue, the sister of one of the characters.[5] Initially, the film's connection to the Blair Witch franchise was kept secret, with the film having been shot under the fake title, The Woods.In 2014, James Donahue finds a video on YouTube containing an image of a woman he believes to be his sister Heather who disappeared in 1994 near Burkittsville while investigating the legend of the Blair Witch. Believing she is still alive, he heads into the woods, accompanied by friends Peter Jones, Ashley Bennett, and film student Lisa Arlington, who wants to film James' search for her documentary, The Absence of Closure.[10][11] Locals Talia and Lane join them.Upon setting up camp for the night, Lane and Talia discuss the disappearance of Heather's film crew, and other mysterious occurrences, which they ascribe to the Blair Witch. After hearing noises during the night, the group awakens to find strange stick figures hanging from the trees. Unnerved, they elect to leave. Lisa notices twine in Lane's backpack and both he and Talia are banished after admitting to creating the figures in order to convince the group to leave, given that there had been strange noises during the night and they had woken up at 2 pm.After hours of walking, the four arrive back at their original campsite, having gone in circles. Lisa pilots a drone to obtain their location, but it malfunctions. Ashley becomes sick due to a wound on her foot, forcing the group to camp again. When Peter inspects Ashley's wounded foot, he spots a parasite inside her foot but makes no mention of it to Ashley. Peter leaves the camp for firewood, soon being chased by an unknown entity; he gets wounded from a tree falling on him, and disappears.During the night, Lane and Talia emerge, claiming they have been wandering around the forest for five days without a sunrise. Believing that he is hallucinating the camp, Lane runs off. The next morning, James and Lisa are stunned to find that it is still dark outside and discover larger stick figures. Talia sees clumps of her hair tied to one of the figures. Ashley accuses Talia of crafting them and snaps the figure with Talia's hair in half; Talia is then snapped in half. An unseen force lifts their tent and the ensuing panic separates the group. Ashley finds the drone and climbs a tree to recover it but after falling from the tree, the unknown entity drags her away.A rainstorm ensues as Lisa and James stumble across Rustin Parr's house, which James had previously stated to have been burned down after his execution. James seemingly spots his sister Heather upstairs, enters the house and sees Peter standing in the corner. He chases after the figure he believes to be Heather, confronted by a teleporting dishevelled figure;[b] upon its vanishing he barricades himself.Outside, Lisa spots the unknown entity, a tall, pale, long-limbed creature moving through the trees, and she runs into the house, into the basement. She finds an aged and hostile Lane who traps her in an underground tunnel as “you have to do what she tells you”. Lisa escapes through the tunnel to a different part of the house, and is forced to stab and kill Lane when he attacks her. Lisa attempts to cover up the tunnel; she is forced to flee when the long-limbed creature she glimpsed outside emerges and chases her down the corridors. Lisa runs up to the attic with Lane's camcorder, creating the paradox that lured them all to the woods.[c]She reunites with James in the attic and they try to barricade the door. A bright light shines from outside the building, around the walls before stopping at the door, indicating the arrival of the witch. James tells Lisa to face the corner of the room and desperately apologizes to her for their fate before the witch enters. James is tricked into turning around, believing that he hears Heather's voice, and vanishes from sight. Lisa uses Lane's camcorder to view what is behind her and begins walking backward. However, hearing James' apology again, she turns vanishes, leaving her camera behind before it gives out, leaving their fates unknown.