Masterminds is a 2016 American comedy film based on the 1997 Loomis Fargo Robbery in North Carolina. Directed by Jared Hess and written by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer and Emily Spivey, the film stars Zach Galifianakis, Owen Wilson, Kristen Wiig, Kate McKinnon, Leslie Jones and Jason Sudeikis.In October 1997 Loomis Fargo & Company was robbed of about $17.8 million by a company security guard Philip Johnson. This gives Steve Eugene Chambers (Owen Wilson) and Kelly Campbell (Kristen Wiig) the idea to also rob Loomis. They involve Loomis Fargo armored car driver David Scott Ghantt (Zach Galifianakis).After some awkward training in preparation for the robbery, the team has David go inside the company's vault and load the vault's entire money supply into the company's van. Before he leaves, David takes out three CCTV tapes, but misses one. The next day, David flees to Mexico with $20,000 and takes the cover name "Michael McKinney", which is the name of a friend of Steve's. Steve, meanwhile, takes most of the heist, around $17 million.FBI Special Agent Scanlon (Leslie Jones) and her partner (Jon Daly) take the case, and immediately have David as the prime suspect, but have no idea of Steve's involvement. Steve plans to cut David loose but Kelly thinks it would be wrong to abandon him.In Mexico, David narrowly escapes from the three Interpol agents looking for him, and then calls Kelly about what happened. Unfortunately, he inadvertently learns Steve's name from the ID in a wallet that Kelly gave to him. Learning that his cover being blown, Steve then hires McKinney (Jason Sudeikis) to find and kill David. He travels to Mexico, and attempts to shoot David, but the gun backfires and David escapes. David phones Kelly and learns that Steve is trying to kill him, and that Steve will not send the money for him as expected. David is then knocked unconscious by McKinney. When David regains consciousness, McKinney is about to kill him but reconsiders upon looking at "McKinney"'s birth certificate, thinking that David was born under the same circumstances; they become friends.David calls Steve, threatening to surrender himself to Interpol if Steve doesn't wire $6 million into his bank account in two days. Kelly is then confronted by Jandice, who, learning of her engagement to David, attacks her. When Steve refuses to wire the money, his two friends kidnap Kelly after her escape from Jandice, and he tells David to get a ticket to South America in exchange for releasing her. At the airport, he meets McKinney, who is returning to the States, but as he bids farewell he sees Kelly's name written on his hand and he tells McKinney that he knows her. Realizing that he can't bring himself to kill her, they switch tickets just as the three Interpol agents show up but he manages to escape.While Steve is hosting a party, the FBI puts a wire on one of the party members in an attempt to record Steve's confession. Unbeknownst to them, David sneaks in and rescues Kelly. They escape by stealing Steve's BMW but unfortunately the car is destroyed when they try to smash it through the front gate. Steve catches and assaults him, until David realizes he is near the FBI van with the agents inside. David tricks Steve into admitting that he was the mastermind of the whole plan, giving the agents enough reason to arrest all of them, including Kelly.David is sentenced to seven years in prison, while Steve serves 11 years. About $2 million of the money is still unaccounted for. Upon David's release, he is picked up by McKinney and they drive to visit Kelly.