The Accountant is a 2016 American crime thriller film directed by Gavin O'Connor, written by Bill Dubuque and starring Ben Affleck, Anna Kendrick, J. K. Simmons, Jon Bernthal, Jeffrey Tambor, Cynthia Addai-Robinson, and John Lithgow. The storyline follows a small-town Illinois certified public accountant with high-functioning autism[3] who actually makes his living uncooking the books of dangerous criminal organizations around the world that are experiencing internal embezzlement.




This article's plot summary may be too long or excessively detailed. Please help improve it by removing unnecessary details and making it more concise. (June 2017) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

As a child, Chris Wolff is diagnosed with a high-functioning form of autism and offered an opportunity to live at Harbor Neuroscience Institute in New Hampshire, where he meets and, for a moment, connects with another patient, Justine, a young girl who does not speak. Chris' father declines the offer of a sensory friendly environment, believing that Chris must overcome the hardships inherent in his condition. Overwhelmed, Chris' mother abandons him, his younger brother Braxton, and their overbearing father, an army officer in Psychological Operations.In the present, Chris (Ben Affleck), works as a forensic accountant, tracking insider financial deceptions for numerous criminal enterprises. His clients are brokered to him via phone by an unidentified woman's voice, which originates from a restricted number. As an auditor of criminal enterprises, he accepts payment in various non-cash forms such as rare comics, gold bricks, and paintings by famous artists. Pursuing him is Ray King (J.K. Simmons), the director of FinCEN, who recognizes Chris by the alias "The Accountant". King blackmails data analyst Marybeth Medina (Cynthia Addai-Robinson) into helping him locate The Accountant and his current identity, threatening to expose her undeclared criminal past if she refuses. King's only leads are Chris' numerous cover names and his military prison number, 831.The voice gives Chris his latest assignment, auditing the Living Robotics Corporation, whose in-house accountant, Dana Cummings (Anna Kendrick), has found suspicious financial discrepancies. The company's founder and CEO, Lamar Blackburn (John Lithgow), and his sister and associate Rita Blackburn (Jean Smart) willingly cooperate with Chris' investigation, while CFO Ed Chilton (Andy Umberger) dismisses Dana's findings as a mistake. Chris quickly discovers that over $61 million has been embezzled from the company, yet the money is being returned. The following night, Ed, who is diabetic, is forced by a hitman (Jon Bernthal) to commit suicide from an insulin overdose. Later, Lamar surmises to Chris that Chilton embezzled the money and was driven to suicide out of guilt. Upset by Chilton's death, Lamar closes the investigation, leaving Chris distraught from unfinished work.Meanwhile, Medina, with FBI help, analyzes a sound recording and isolates Chris' voice as he is muttering the nursery rhyme Solomon Grundy to alleviate his anxiety. She then traces Chris's cover identities utilizing names of famed mathematicians (Carl Gauss, Lou Carroll, and his current identity, Christian Wolff). The trail leads her to the modest accounting office in Plainfield, Illinois that Chris uses as a cover while channeling his income through four cash-only businesses in the same strip mall.Chris and Dana are targeted for assassination. Chris, using the extensive combat skills from his childhood training, kills his pursuers and rescues Dana, taking her to the trailer where he keeps the things he values, including an original Jackson Pollock painting he received as a payment. While in hiding, they realize the embezzled money was being reinvested to enable an increase in Living Robotics's value prior to its public offering. Initially concluding Rita is behind the fraud, Chris attempts to confront her, but finds her dead at the hands of the hitman, exposing Lamar as the mastermind.Upon arriving at Chris's home, King reveals to Medina that Chris had been arrested after a fight at his remarried mother's funeral, where Chris's father's dies taking a deputy's bullet meant for Chris. In jail, Chris was mentored into accounting by Francis Silverberg (Jeffrey Tambor), a former accountant and fixer for the Gambino crime family, who subsequently became an informant for the United States government. Upon release, Silverberg was tortured to death by the Gambino family, driving an enraged Chris to escape from jail and exact revenge on the people responsible. King confides to Medina that he was present at the shootout, but that Chris spared him after asking him if he'd been a "good dad".King tells Medina he was contacted by the voice and given information on criminal activities whenever it violated Chris' personal moral code, resulting in King rising to the position of director. King says that after his retirement someone must be available to take the calls from the voice, implying that it should be her. Although Medina is reluctant to take on the role, King patiently explains why she should, during which the phone rings once again.Chris attacks Lamar's mansion and kills the mercenary guards led by the hitman. During the shootout, the hitman hears Chris recognizes the nursery rhyme Chris is muttering, and reveals himself to be Chris' brother. Braxton initially attacks Chris, blaming him for their father's death. When Lamar appears and arrogantly chastises Chris, Chris shoots him on the spot, to Braxton's astonishment. The two brothers amiably agree to meet in a week's time. Chris bids farewell to Dana by sending her the Pollock (covered up by the Dogs Playing Poker painting A Friend in Need, a reference to their initial conversation), and leaves to find a safe location for his continuing work.In a scene at the Harbor Neuroscience Institute, the voice is revealed to be a computer-generated voice from a powerful computer, given to the Institute as a donation by Chris. The computer is used by a (still mute) adult Justine (Alison Wright), the girl Chris met as a child, to communicate and to fulfill her duties as Chris's partner.