American Pastoral is a 2016 American crime-drama film directed by Ewan McGregor and written by John Romano, based on the 1997 novel of the same name by Philip Roth. The film stars McGregor, Jennifer Connelly, Dakota Fanning, Peter Riegert, Rupert Evans, Uzo Aduba, Molly Parker and David Strathairn. Principal photography began on September 21, 2015, in Pittsburgh.At the 45th-year reunion of the graduating class of Weequahic High School in Newark, New Jersey; author Nathan Zuckerman meets one of his old friends, Jerry Levov. They talk about Jerry's brother, former star athlete Seymour "Swede" Levov, who recently died after a long illness.In a flashback, Swede persuades his father, glovemaking magnate Lou Levov, to let him marry his high school sweetheart, beauty queen Dawn Dwyer. Lou is skeptical because Swede is Jewish and Dawn is a devout Roman Catholic, but gives in. They have a daughter, Meredith, or "Merry", and settle in the town of Old Rimrock, where they acquire a large farm.For much of her life, Merry struggles with a stuttering problem, but her parents are unable to get a handle on it. By the time Merry reaches high school, she has become increasingly radicalized as the Vietnam War rages, and frequently goes to New York City to take part in antiwar protests. Fearing for her safety, Swede urges Merry to channel her energy into protesting against the war at home.A few days later, the local post office and gas station are blown up by a massive bomb, killing the gas station's owner. Merry disappears soon afterward, and is the prime suspect in the bombing. She is not heard from again until Rita Cohen, a student at the Wharton School, comes ostensibly to do a study on the glovemaking industry, and tips off Swede that she knows about Merry's whereabouts. Swede meets Rita in a hotel, but spurns Rita's attempts to seduce him. The strain of Merry's disappearance briefly sends Dawn into a mental hospital. She gets a facelift soon afterward, and tries to get Swede to forget about Merry.Years later, when leaving a gallery crawl, Swede spots Rita on the street. Rita takes him to a skid-row area of Newark where Merry now lives. Here, Swede asks and Merry confesses to having made and planted 3 bombs, killing 4 people. She also tells of how after escaping capture, she moved into the underground, when she was raped repeatedly. Merry wants to withdraw from society, as a penance for her crimes. She becomes a Jain and vows a life of non-violence.She has no desire to return home even when Swede tries to trigger her childhood memories at a subsequent visit. We then see him in a series of shots through the years, growing older, outside the abandoned house where he found Merry, waiting and holding to his promise to never abandon her. Swede never sees Merry again.Back in the present, Nathan and Jerry attend Swede's funeral, with Nathan answering himself "how we know we're alive," it is because we realize "we're wrong" about everyone all the time. As the guests are about to leave, Merry arrives, having not since seen her father, and lays her hand on his casket.