Town & Country is a 2001 American romantic comedy film directed by Peter Chelsom, written by Buck Henry and Michael Laughlin, and starring Warren Beatty, Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn, Garry Shandling, Andie MacDowell, Jenna Elfman, Nastassja Kinski, and Charlton Heston.[3] Beatty plays an architect, with Keaton as his wife, and Hawn and Shandling as their best friends. This is Beatty's and Keaton's first film together since 1981's Reds, and Beatty's third film with Hawn, after 1971's $ and 1975's Shampoo.Porter Stoddard (Beatty) is so prosperous an architect, he has New York homes on Park Avenue and in the Hamptons, as well as a vacation lodge out west in Sun Valley[disambiguation needed]. He has been married for 25 years to the equally successful Ellie (Keaton), an interior designer, but has been having an affair with Alex (Kinski), a beautiful young cellist.There is trouble brewing in the marriage of their best friends. Mona Morris (Hawn) wants a divorce from antique-dealer husband Griffin, catching him having a hotel tryst. The part she did not catch is that Griffin's new romantic partner is a cross-dressing man. Mona wants to travel to Mississippi to see her girlhood antebellum home. Ellie is worried about Mona's depression over the state of her marriage and does not feel she should be alone, so Porter is asked to accompany Mona down south. There, they end up having a quick sexual fling.With things awkward at home for both, Porter and Griffin fly by themselves to Sun Valley to get away from their troubles. But it is not long before Porter finds himself in a romantic entanglement with Eugenie Claybourne (MacDowell), a spoiled heiress whose gun-loving father (Heston) is already loading his shotgun in case Porter does wrong by his daughter. A free spirit named Auburn (Elfman) also ends up coaxing Porter and Griffin to a Halloween party, where they end up dressed in preposterous costumes.By the time Porter returns to New York, everything is falling apart, not only his home life but his house. And, once and for all, Griffin finds the nerve to tell his wife that he is leaving her for someone else, but it is not another woman.