Training Day is a 2001 American neo-noir crime thriller film directed by Antoine Fuqua, written by David Ayer, and starring Denzel Washington and Ethan Hawke. The story follows two LAPD narcotics officers over a 24-hour period in the gang-ridden neighborhoods of the LAPD Rampart Division and South Central Los Angeles.Los Angeles Police Department Officer Jake Hoyt (Ethan Hawke) is assigned for an evaluation headed by an experienced narcotics officer Detective Alonzo Harris (Denzel Washington) with dirty hands. Initially, Jake does not know that Alonzo is corrupt and hopes to be promoted if the evaluation is successful. The two begin the day by catching some college kids buying cannabis from an MS-13 gang member, who also serves as an informant for Alonzo. Confiscating the drugs from the kids, Alonzo tells Jake to smoke it. Jake refuses initially, but only complies when Alonzo threatens him at gunpoint. Alonzo states that refusing like this while on the streets would easily get him killed. After paying a visit to Roger, an ex-police officer turned drug dealer, Jake notices a pair of drug addicts attempting to rape a young teenage girl in an alley. Jake intervenes whilst Alonzo watches, who then proceeds to give the two addicts the choice of either going to prison or home. Alonzo lets them free despite Jake's disapproval of this method. Jake finds the girl's wallet on the ground and takes it.Later on in the day, Alonzo and Jake apprehend a wheelchair-bound dealer named Blue (Snoop Dogg), and by forcing him to vomit, Alonzo finds crack rocks and a loaded handgun on him. Rather than go to jail, Blue informs on his associate Kevin "Sandman" Miller, who is in prison. Using a fake search warrant, Alonzo steals $40,000 from Sandman's home in Watts with Jake in tow. Sandman's wife realizes the theft and calls out to nearby gang members who open fire on Alonzo and Jake as they flee. At lunch, the two visit Alonzo's Salvadoran mistress, Sara and their young son at Baldwin Village. After, Alonzo meets with a trio of corrupt high-ranking police officials he dubs as the "Three Wise Men". They tell Alonzo that they are aware the Russian Mafia are looking for him, and suggest that he skips town. Alonzo insists he has control of the situation and is granted permission to "cash in an account". Alonzo trades Sandman's drug money for an arrest warrant.Traveling back to Roger's house using the obtained warrant, Alonzo, Jake, and four other narcotics officers just as corrupt as Alonzo seize $4 million from the premises. Distributing $250,000 for each narc present, Jake refuses to take his share from Alonzo. The others see this as a sign of a possible problem for the unit's corrupt methods. Alonzo instructs Jake to shoot Roger, and when he refuses to do so, Alonzo does it instead, killing him and then arranges for the scene to appear like a justified shootout. Jake wholeheartedly refuses to be a part of it, and when threatened seizes Alonzo's shotgun, prompting a Mexican standoff with the other officers. Alonzo calms his associates before telling Jake what will happen if he exposes his methods. He tells him that the LAPD will run a blood test on him which will identify the PCP-laced cannabis he smoked earlier. Alonzo promises he can falsify this in exchange for his cooperation, Jake reluctantly agrees.Later that evening, Alonzo drives Jake to the home of a Sureño named Smiley to run an errand. Jake reluctantly plays poker with Smiley and his fellow gang members as he waits for Alonzo, whilst Smiley reveals the situation Alonzo is in, namely, that by midnight tonight, Alonzo must pay $1 million to the Russian Mafia for the killing of one of their men in Las Vegas, or be killed himself. Jake then also realizes that Alonzo abandoned him, and had also paid Smiley to kill him. Jake is beaten and dragged to the bathroom to be executed. A gang member searches Jake for money before he is killed, and finds the teenage girl's wallet who by sheer coincidence happens to be Smiley's cousin. After hearing Jake's story of how he had saved her from being raped earlier that day, Smiley shows gratitude and lets Jake go.Jake returns to Sara's apartment to arrest Alonzo, but a gunfight and chase ensue. Alonzo is subdued, whilst the entire neighborhood congregates to watch. In an attempt to get the crowd on his side, Alonzo offers money to whoever kills Jake; but nobody interferes. Instead, they allow Jake to walk away with the money, and Jake plans to submit it as evidence against Alonzo. Alonzo flees for his life to Los Angeles International Airport, but his car is ambushed by the Russians, who gun him down. Jake returns home as the news broadcast Alonzo's death as a heroic officer.