8 Mile is a 2002 American drama film written by Scott Silver, directed by Curtis Hanson, and starring Eminem, Mekhi Phifer, Brittany Murphy, Michael Shannon, and Kim Basinger.In Fall 1995 in Detroit, Jimmy "B-Rabbit" Smith Jr. (Eminem), a blue-collar worker from a poor family, struggles with various aspects of his life. He has moved back north of 8 Mile Road to the run-down trailer home in Warren, Michigan of his alcoholic mother Stephanie (Kim Basinger), his little sister Lily (Chloe Greenfield), and Stephanie's abusive live-in boyfriend Greg (Michael Shannon). Although encouraged by his friends who hail him as a talented rapper, Jimmy worries about his potential as a musician, due to his lack of confidence. This causes him to panic during a rap battle one night at a local venue called "The Shelter" and he leaves the stage humiliated.Jimmy works at a car factory, but when he asks for extra shifts, his supervisor laughs, and dismisses his request on account of his habitual lateness. Jimmy befriends a woman named Alex (Brittany Murphy). Over time, Jimmy begins to take more responsibility for the direction of his life. When he exhibits an improved attitude and performance at work, his supervisor grants him the extra shifts he requested.Later on, Stephanie receives a notice declaring that, because she cannot afford to pay the rent on her trailer, she and her family must vacate the premises immediately. Despite Stephanie's best attempts to keep the eviction notice a secret, Greg finds out about it anyway, with a brutal fight ensuing between him and Jimmy, and Greg leaves Stephanie for good. Jimmy's friendship with Wink (Eugene Byrd), a radio disk jockey with ties to a record label prompter, becomes strained after he discovers that Wink does promotional work for Jimmy's rivals, a rap group known as the "Leaders of the Free World". At one point, Jimmy and his friends get into a violent brawl with the Leaders, which is disrupted when Jimmy's friend "Cheddar Bob" pulls out a gun and accidentally shoots himself in the leg; he survives, but is confined to crutches.At work one day, Jimmy witnesses a rap battle in which an employee named Mike (Xzibit) insults a gay co-worker named Paul with his lyrics. Jimmy joins the battle to defend Paul by berating Mike. Alex is impressed by his actions, and she and Jimmy have sex in the factory. Wink arranges for Jimmy to meet with producers at a recording studio, but Jimmy finds Wink and Alex having sex atop a mixing console. Enraged, he beats up Wink and their friendship ends. In retaliation, Wink and the Leaders of the Free World assault Jimmy outside his mother's trailer. The leader of the gang, Papa Doc (Anthony Mackie), holds Jimmy at gunpoint, threatening to kill him but Wink dissuades Papa Doc.Jimmy's best friend Future (Mekhi Phifer) pushes him to get his revenge by competing against the Leaders of the Free World at the next rap battle. However Jimmy's late-night shift conflicts with the next battle tournament. But a goodbye visit from Alex, who is moving to New York, changes his mind about competing. Paul, the work colleague whom Jimmy had stood up for earlier, agrees to cover his shift at work as a thank you, and Jimmy enters the battle.In each of the three rounds of the battle, Jimmy is pitted against a different member of the Leaders and wins the first two rounds. In the final round he is paired against Papa Doc. Jimmy is aware that Doc knows all his flaws, so he uses his difficult life as a springboard to reveal the truth about Papa Doc: his real name is Clarence and despite passing himself off as a thug he comes from an affluent background, having attended Cranbrook Schools, a private high school in upper-class suburb Bloomfield Hills, and grown up in a stable, married two-parent household.With nothing to say in rebuttal, Clarence hands the microphone back to Future, feeling embarrassed that someone he thought was below him beat him in a battle. After being congratulated by Alex and his friends, Future offers him a position hosting battles at The Shelter. Jimmy declines, saying he has to get back to work and to find success his own way. He walks back to work, with a renewed sense of confidence about his future.