Dinosaur is a 2000 American CGI animated adventure film produced by Walt Disney Feature Animation and The Secret Lab and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is the 39th Disney animated feature film and Disney's The Secret Lab computer animated feature,[2] though it is not officially labeled as one of the animated classics in the United Kingdom, where The Wild (2006) is included in the canon instead.[3]A Carnotaurus ambushes an infant Parasaurolophus triggering a stampede, which forces an Iguanodon mother to abandon her nest. The one surviving egg journeys through several predicaments via the flight of a Geosternbergia, before ending up on a far away island populated by lemurs. Plio names the hatched baby Aladar and raises him. Years later, Aladar and the lemurs take part in the mating ritual, where Zini goes without a mate. Moments after the ritual ends, a giant meteor strikes and destroy the island, spreading numerous exploding fireballs. Aladar, Plio, Zini, Yar and Suri flee and jump across the sea to the mainland. They mourn for their losses before moving on.While crossing the deserted wastelands, they are ambushed by a pack of Velociraptor. After escaping, the family comes across a remaining multi-species herd of dinosaurs led by Kron and Bruton, who are on a journey to reach the "Nesting Grounds", a valley said to be untouched by the meteor. As Aladar and the lemurs befriend a trio of elderly dinosaurs, Kron permits them to follow the herd. Together, they migrate across the desert to a lake they have relied on for past trips. Though it has seemingly dried up because of the meteor, Aladar and Baylene discover the buried water under the dry surface, saving the herd from dehydration. Impressed by Aladar's compassionate ways, Neera begins to fall in love with him.Meanwhile, two Carnotaurus pick up the herd's trail and begin stalking them for food. Bruton, while on a scouting mission, is attacked by the predators. He escapes and warns Kron that they are being followed, putting the entire herd in grave danger. Kron picks up the pace and quickly evacuates the herd, leaving Aladar, the lemurs, the older dinosaurs, and Bruton behind, while the Carnotaurus are in pursuit some distance away. During a rainstorm, the stragglers spend the night in the cave, where Plio heals Bruton, and the Carnotaurs find and attack them. Bruton saves the others and sacrifices himself, causing a cave in to kill the female Carnotaurus in the process. As the rest of the group venture deeper through the cave, the male Carnotaurus having survived, resumes its search for the herd.Aladar loses hope when they reach a dead end, but the others convince him to keep going, relating how he inspired them to do the same. After they knock down the dead end together and successfully find the Nesting Grounds on the other side, Eema sees a large wall of rocks blocking the original entryway to the valley. Knowing that the herd will die attempting to climb over it, Aladar rushes off alone to find them, but encounters the surviving Carnotaurus and it pursues him. As Aladar arrives to catch up with the herd and suggests the safer way to the valley, Kron furiously attacks him until Neera stops them. The herd decides to abandon Kron and takes Aladar as their new leader. As they prepare to leave, the Carnotaurus confronts them. Aladar rallies the herd to stand together, and they bellow their way past the predator, who follows Kron. Aladar and Neera fight against the Carnotaurus until he falls off the cliff to his death. Kron dies from his injuries, with Aladar and Neera mourning for him.The herd are led back to the Nesting Grounds as their new home. A new generation of dinosaurs hatches sometime later, along with Aladar and Neera's children. The lemurs find more of their kind, and soon they begin embarking on a new life together.