Eight Legged Freaks is a 2002 horror comedy film directed by Ellory Elkayem and starring David Arquette, Kari Wuhrer, Scott Terra and Scarlett Johansson. An international co-production between Germany, the United States, and Australia, the plot concerns a collection of spiders that are exposed to toxic waste, causing them to grow to gigantic proportions and begin killing and harvesting. The film was dedicated to the memory of several people: One was Lewis Arquette, father of the star of the film David Arquette, who had died in 2001 from heart failure, and the other two were Don Devlin and Pilar Seurat, the parents of producer Dean Devlin, who both died of lung cancer in 2000 and 2001, respectively.   The quiet Arizona mining town, Prosperity's problem with giant spiders started with a simple accident where a truck carrying barrels of toxic waste swerved trying not to hit a rabbit, throwing a barrel into the reservoir. Thus, begins the food chain reaction. An exotic spider farmer named Joshua Taft (Tom Noonan) feeds his collection of spiders, which include jumping spiders, tarantulas, trapdoor spiders, male orb-weaver spiders, and a female orb-weaver named Consuela, with crickets caught from the reservoir. As a result, they grow to enormous size, with an ever-increasing appetite. They start terrorizing the town, attacking, killing, abducting and devouring people. So begins the battle between the giant spiders and the people of Prosperity. Director Ellory Elkayem got the idea from his 1997 short film, Larger Than Life, which also handled a spider-fighting storyline. The film was originally titled Arac Attack (under which it was released in some parts of Europe and other countries around the world) but the similarity to 'Iraq Attack' made the title seem inappropriate near the start of the Iraq War.[citation needed] The title, "Eight Legged Freaks", is a line that Arquette ad-libbed in the movie: "Get back, you eight-legged freaks!"[citation needed] Eight Legged Freaks was met with mixed reviews. It currently holds an approval rating of 48% on Rotten Tomatoes stating: "This homage to the B-movies of the '50s has a promising first half, but runs out of ideas in the second".[2] On January 5, 2003, the news-website Moviehole reported that Eight Legged Freaks 2 was in development.[3]