The Emperor's Club is a 2002 American drama film directed by Michael Hoffman and starring Kevin Kline. Based on Ethan Canin's short story "The Palace Thief," the film follows a prep school teacher and his students at a fictional boys' prep school, St. Benedict's Academy, near Washington, D.C.William Hundert is a passionate and principled Classics professor who finds his tightly-controlled world shaken and inexorably altered when a new student, Sedgewick Bell, walks into his classroom. Sedgewick Bell is the cocky son of a senior Senator who possesses none of Hundert's principles. Initially, a fierce battle of wills takes place between Hundert and Bell. This gives way to a close student-teacher relationship. Bell eventually finishes in the top 3 in Hundert's class (though he was actually fourth but Hundert privately moved him up) and qualifies for the traditional end of the year Mr. Julius Caesar contest. Bell finishes second in the competition. After, Bell openly admits to Hundert that he cheated. No one else knows he did.Twenty-five years later, Hundert is reunited with his students at an event staged by Bell, and they realize how life has changed them all. Hundert eventually would become headmaster of the school thanks to Bell. Bell donated the money under the circumstances that Hundert would host a Mr. Julius Caesar contest once more in hopes that he would be able to regain his dignity. Bell again cheats during this competition and finishes in second once more - missing the same question he missed twenty-five years earlier and finishing in second again. Once more, only Hundert is aware that Bell cheated. After the competition ends Bell announces that he will be running for a seat in the U.S. Senate and stresses the importance of government funding of education.Shortly after his announcement, Hundert and Bell run into each other in the bathroom, where Hundert confronts Bell about his immorality. Bell goes on to tell Hundert that it did not matter if he cheated or not, as life is full of cheaters. Just then, Bell's son comes out of a stall, and Bell is left to face him, now known as the cheater he is.