Gangs of New York is a 2002 American epic period drama film directed by Martin Scorsese, set in the mid-19th century in the Five Points district of New York City. The screenplay is by Jay Cocks, Steven Zaillian, and Kenneth Lonergan. It was inspired by Herbert Asbury's 1927 nonfiction book, The Gangs of New York. It was made in Cinecittà, Rome, distributed by Miramax Films and nominated for numerous awards, including the Academy Award for Best Picture, among nine other Oscar nominations.In the slum neighborhood of Five Points, Manhattan in 1846, two gangs have a final battle in Paradise Square: The nativist, Protestant "Natives" led by Bill "the Butcher" Cutting, and the Irish Catholic immigrant "Dead Rabbits" led by "Priest" Vallon. Bill kills Vallon and orders that he be buried with honor, and declares the Dead Rabbits outlawed. Having witnessed this, Vallon's young son hides the knife that killed his father and is taken to an orphanage on Blackwell's Island.In September 1862, Vallon's son, now calling himself Amsterdam, returns to Five Points seeking revenge and retrieves the knife. An old acquaintance, Johnny Sirocco, familiarizes him with the local clans of gangs and thieves, all of whom pay tribute to Bill, who controls the neighborhood. Amsterdam joins Johnny's gang of thieves and is introduced to Bill, but keeps his past a secret. He learns that many of his father's former loyalists are now in Bill's employ, including "Happy Jack" Mulraney, who is now a corrupt constable, and McGloin, who is one of Bill's lieutenants. Each year, Bill celebrates the anniversary of his victory over the Dead Rabbits; Amsterdam plans to murder him publicly during this celebration.Amsterdam becomes attracted to pickpocket and grifter Jenny Everdeane, who Johnny is infatuated with. Amsterdam's interest is dampened, however, upon learning that she was once Bill's ward and still enjoys his affections. Amsterdam gains Bill's confidence and Bill becomes his mentor, involving him in the dealings of corrupt politician William M. Tweed. Amsterdam saves Bill from an assassination attempt, and is tormented by the thought that he may have done so out of honest devotion. Jenny nurses Bill's wounds, and she and Amsterdam have a furious argument which dissolves into passionate lovemaking. Bill speaks to Amsterdam of the downfall of civilization and how he has maintained power through the spectacle of violence and fear. He says that Priest Vallon was his last worthy enemy, and that the Priest once beat him but spared his life, leaving him ashamed, which gave him the strength of will to return and fight for his own authority.On the evening of the anniversary, Johnny, in a fit of jealousy over Jenny, reveals Amsterdam's true identity and intentions to Bill. Bill baits Amsterdam with a knife throwing act involving Jenny. As Bill toasts Priest Vallon, Amsterdam throws his knife, but Bill deflects it and wounds Amsterdam with a counter throw. Bill proclaims that rather than dying, Amsterdam shall live in shame, and burns his cheek with a hot blade. Going into hiding, Jenny nurses Amsterdam back to health and implores him to escape with her to San Francisco. "Monk" McGinn, a barber who fought for Priest Vallon, gives Amsterdam a straight razor that belonged to Amsterdam's father.Amsterdam announces his return by hanging a dead rabbit in Paradise Square. Bill sends Happy Jack to investigate, but Amsterdam kills him and hangs his body in the square. In retaliation, Bill has Johnny severely beaten and run through with a pike, leaving it to Amsterdam to end his suffering. The racist McGloin attacks Amsterdam's African American friend Jimmy, but is beaten by Amsterdam and his new gang of Dead Rabbits. The Natives confront them, and Bill promises to return when they are ready to fight. The incident garners newspaper coverage, and Tweed presents Amsterdam with a plan to defeat Bill's influence: Tweed will back the candidacy of Monk McGinn for sheriff in exchange for the support of the Irish vote. Bill and Amsterdam each force people to vote, some of them several times, resulting in Monk winning by more votes than there are voters. Bill, humiliated, murders Monk. Amsterdam challenges Bill and the Natives to fight.The New York City draft riots break out just as the gangs are preparing to battle, and Union Army soldiers are deployed to control the rioters. As the rival gangs face off, they are interrupted by cannon fire from naval ships firing directly into Paradise Square. Between the cannons and soldiers, many of the gang members are killed including McGloin. Bill and Amsterdam face off against one another until Bill is severely wounded by a piece of shrapnel. Declaring "Thank God, I die a true American", he is finally killed by Amsterdam.Bill is buried on a hilltop cemetery in Brooklyn, adjacent to Priest Vallon. Amsterdam buries his father's razor and leaves for San Francisco with Jenny, narrating that in time New York would be rebuilt as if "we were never here". The passage of time is depicted rapidly, with modern New York being built up over the next hundred years and the graves of Bill and Priest becoming overgrown and forgotten.