Hey Arnold!: The Movie is a 2002 American animated adventure comedy film based on the Nickelodeon animated television series of the same name. It was directed by Tuck Tucker and written by series creator Craig Bartlett and Steve Viksten, with music by Jim Lang. The film stars Spencer Klein, Francesca Smith, Jamil Walker Smith, Dan Castellaneta, Tress MacNeille, Paul Sorvino, Jennifer Jason Leigh, and Christopher Lloyd. The film follows Arnold, Gerald, and Helga on a quest to save their neighborhood from a greedy developer who plans on converting it into a huge shopping mall.Arriving home from a basketball game, Arnold and his best friend Gerald learn that Scheck, the CEO of FutureTech Industries (FTI), has announced plans to redevelop the entire neighborhood as a luxurious high-rise shopping mall. That night, Helga finds that her father, Big Bob, is working with FTI to build a new super-sized branch of his beeper store in the proposed mall. She ultimately sides with her father, though is hesitant to do so because of her love for Arnold.Arnold hosts a protest rally against FTI. Unfortunately, their permit is stolen by Scheck's employees, Grandma Gertie is arrested, and the protest is subsequently declared illegal. The failure encourages many of Arnold's neighbors to give up, and sell their homes to FTI. As the residents begin packing their belongings, Grandpa Phil tells the story of the "Tomato Incident", a major revolutionary war battle fought in the city. Arnold realize that the neighborhood had to have been declared a historic district after the war, effectively ensuring its preservation, but the legal document granting its landmark status had been sold to a collector, who is none other than Scheck himself. When confronted, however, he denies having the document, and kicks Arnold and Gerald out of his offices.As the deadline draws near, Arnold gets a mysterious phone call from "Deep Voice" (a "Deep Throat"-esq character), who informs Arnold that Scheck is lying and the document is in his office safe. Arnold and Gerald manage to steal the key to the safe from Scheck's assistant, Nick Vermicelli. Nick later notices the missing key, and informs Scheck. Meanwhile, Phil and the boarders try to devise a backup in case Arnold fails. The plan is to wire the storm drain tunnels beneath their street with dynamite to intercept FTI's construction equipment. Big Bob later teams up with them after discovering Nick's contract states Scheck will control 51% of his company and swindle him as a result.With help from agent Bridget, Arnold and Gerald sneak into FTI headquarters and access the safe, only to find that the document is missing. Scheck appears from behind them with the document in his hand. He reveals that his ancestor, a governor of the British forces, was humiliated by the "Tomato Incident", and, that, for years, Scheck has been planning to avenge his family by tearing down that very neighborhood and replacing it with a hulking building carrying his name on it. He then burns the document to ensure that his plans will proceed, before summoning his guards to get rid of Arnold and Gerald. They manage to escape, but believe they have failed, until "Deep Voice" advises Arnold to obtain the FTI's security-camera footage of Scheck burning the document.After Arnold finds out that "Deep Voice" is Helga, he asks why she decided to help him instead of her father. Helga reluctantly confesses her love, and then kisses Arnold. Helga and Arnold escape the building, and meet Gerald on a city bus, convincing the driver to race home when realizing that his girlfriend lives in the same neighborhood. Despite several near-collisions, the kids eventually make it back unharmed. The Mayor arrives at the scene, along with the police and a news crew. Accessing the large ScheckVision monitor poised atop a nearby building, Arnold and agent Bridget show everyone the footage of Scheck burning the document. The Mayor officially restores the neighborhood's status as a historic site.Scheck arrives, demanding to know why demolition has not begun. He sees the footage of himself burning the document on the monitor. Gertie, having escaped prison, sabotaged his car, and Scheck is promptly arrested. Harold accidentally sits down on the detonator that ignites Phil's explosives. But explosives beneath the street destroy the ScheckVision monitor instead. Helga denies ever having loved Arnold, claiming that she said those things in "the heat of the moment". Arnold, unconvinced, pretends to accept it. Eugene sings about the neighborhood being saved until Gerald interrupts him, saying, "Show's over, Eugene." Helga cheerfully returns home.