Jackass: The Movie is a 2002 American reality comedy film directed by Jeff Tremaine with the tagline "Do not attempt this at home." It is a continuation of the stunts and pranks by the various characters of the MTV television series Jackass, which had completed its unique series run by this time. The film was produced by MTV Films and Dickhouse Productions and released by Paramount Pictures. The show features all the original Jackass cast, including the leader Johnny Knoxville, Steve-O Glover, Chris Pontius, Dave England, Bam Margera, Preston Lacy, Ryan Dunn, Ehren McGhehey and Jason "Wee Man" Acuña. Brandon DiCamillo and Raab Himself also appear but not as frequently as in the show. Other regular Jackass personalities who made appearances include Rake Yohn, Manny Puig, Phil Margera, and April "Ape" Margera. In addition, Rip Taylor, Henry Rollins, Spike Jonze, boxing star Butterbean, Mat Hoffman, and Tony Hawk make cameo appearances. An unrated version of the film was released in 2006, with a runtime of 88 minutes long.   In the ending of the film, Johnny Knoxville is launched from a catapult into a lake, where Rip Taylor sits in a boat, announcing that "this is the end." This is followed with the credits being shown over outtakes from the film. The original ending for the film was supposed to be a Rube Goldberg-type contraption, with each of the cast members performing a stunt that either has something to do with what they did on the show (for example, the first stunt would have Preston as "The Human Wrecking Ball", knocking him into a Port-A-Potty), or simply for a sight gag (such as Ehren being knocked over in the Port-A-Potty and landing on a bed of toilet paper rolls), ending with Johnny being launched off the catapult next to Rip Taylor. However, as the entire contraption didn't work together the way they wanted it to, the producers of the film decided to try filming an alternate ending, which is how they came to film the "Son Of Jackass" skit. The "Son Of Jackass" skit involves dressing all the performers in 'old man' clothing and having them run around exploding buildings and sheds, with only Steve-O surviving to proclaim "Yeah, dude." In the cast commentary, it is said that this is ironic as Steve-O is the least likely to even reach old age. Some bits of the failed ending were incorporated into the end credits montage, like Dave England dressed in a penis costume and the giant Plinko contraption. Because of the sensitive nature of some stunts, as well as the possibility of legal action, some parts of the film had to be edited out. One example of this is in the "Riot Control Test" skit. In this skit, Johnny Knoxville is shot at with a beanbag projectile from a pump-action shotgun. The first time Knoxville is shot at, it misses him making him extremely nervous. The scene was later edited out as, while the Jackass crew could waive civil liability, they could not waive criminal liability. Hence, should Johnny or any cast member have been killed or grievously injured as a result of a stunt, the producers of the film could be held liable on the grounds of negligent or reckless homicide or battery. In addition, the final skit in the film called "Butt X-Ray" was edited to remove the insertion of the toy car into Ryan Dunn's anus, the reason being that displaying the insertion might have been considered pornographic or otherwise highly objectionable by the MPAA, and could have earned the film an NC-17 rating, severely limiting its distribution. Since some scenes of the film were shot in Tokyo, Japan, a special edited version was made and screened for Japanese audiences. Some bits were edited out for legal reasons (especially scenes showing people's faces without their consent); however, they were placed back in for the special DVD version. The film had a budget of $5 million[1] and was the number one film at the United States box office when it opened, grossing $22,763,437, revenue from 2,509 theaters, for an average of $9,073 per venue. The film fell to fourth place in its second weekend, but dropped a lower than expected 44 percent to $12,729,732, expanding to 2,530 theaters, averaging $5,032 per theater, and bringing the ten day gross to $42,121,857.[1] The film went on to gross $64,255,312 in the United States alone, with the opening weekend making up 35.43 percent of its final gross. It also made $15,238,519 in other countries, bringing the worldwide gross of $79,493,831, returning its investment nearly 16 times over, and thus making the film a huge financial success.[2] As of November 2014, on the review aggregate site Rotten Tomatoes, 48% of critics gave the film positive reviews based on 95 reviews; the critics consensus is, "There's a good chance you'll be laughing hysterically at one stunt, but getting grossed out by the next one in this big screen version of the controversial MTV show."[3] On Metacritic, the film had an average score of 42 out of 100, based on 14 reviews, indicating "mixed or average reviews."[4] This film won a Razzie Award for Most Flatulent Teen-Targeted Movie. The soundtrack was released on October 25, 2002 by American Recordings. The soundtrack features songs that were featured in the movie, and various audio clips from the movie.[20] Jackass: The Movie was filmed with a modest budget of approximately $5 million, but earned more than $22 million during its opening weekend, effectively managing to secure the top spot at the box office for its debut. It eventually grossed more than $64 million in North America alone. On September 22, 2006, Paramount Pictures released Jackass Number Two. A feature titled Jackass 2.5 was compiled from outtakes shot during the making of the second film and released direct-to-DVD on December 26, 2007. In December 2009, Paramount Pictures and MTV Films issued a press release that a second sequel titled Jackass 3D would be made. It was released on October 15, 2010.[21] The movie was filmed in 3D starting in January 2010.[22][23] Jackass 3.5 was compiled from outtakes shot during the making of the third film. The film was released in weekly installments on Joost from April 1 through June 13, 2011.[24] The entire film was then released direct-to-DVD on June 14, 2011.