Jonah: A VeggieTales Movie is a 2002 American computer-animated comedy adventure musical film, based on VeggieTales, produced by Big Idea Productions and it was released by Artisan Entertainment through its F.H.E. Pictures label. The film premiered on October 4, 2002. It is the first feature-length film in the VeggieTales series. The film also came out on VHS and DVD on March 4, 2003 as a worldwide home video release in both full-screen and widescreen.[1]Bob the Tomato and Dad Asparagus are driving Junior Asparagus, Laura Carrot, and other Veggie children to see the popular singer "Twippo" in concert. During the drive, Laura taunts the other children because she won a backstage pass, which particularly annoys Junior. Bob briefly loses control of the van after being hit in the back of the head by a guitar, and Laura loses her pass in the chaos. To make matters worse, soon afterwards a porcupine shoots out two of the van's tires, and the van veers off of the road and careens down a hill, stopping short of a river.In a nearby restaurant, Bob blames Dad Asparagus for the crash and Junior tells a grieving Laura that losing her pass was her own fault. Once seated by the maître d's, Jean-Claude and Phillipe Pea, Junior is met by Larry the Cucumber, Pa Grape, and Mr. Lunt, who collectively comprise The Pirates Who Don't Do Anything. The Pirates tell Junior that he was being rather tough on his friend and encourage him to show some compassion. To illustrate their point, they tell all the Veggies a story about a man of God named Jonah.Jonah (Archibald Asparagus) is a Prophet of ancient Israel who goes from town to town delivering God's messages. One night, God asks him to deliver a message to Nineveh, the harsh and dangerous capital city of Assyria. However, Jonah is unwilling to preach a word of repentance to the Ninevites and instead tries to flee from the Lord by having The Pirates sail him to Tarshish. After leaving port, a guilt-stricken Jonah goes below deck to rest where he meets Khalil, a traveling Persian rug salesman and a stowaway.After experiencing a nightmare, Jonah awakens to find the ship beset by a great storm. Captain Pa Grape concludes that the storm has been sent because God is angry at someone on the ship. The group decides to play Go Fish to divine who is at fault. Jonah loses the game and is forced to walk the plank. As soon as Jonah is off the ship, the skies clear. The Pirates attempt to reel Jonah back in, but before they can do so, Jonah is swallowed by a giant whale. The pirates attack the whale using a cannon with a bowling ball (with Khalil inside it) as ammo. The whale swallows the ball, disgorges Jonah's lifebelt, and swims away.Inside the belly of the whale, Khalil finds a grieving Jonah and the pair are soon visited by a host of God's angels, who explain through a song that if Jonah repents, God will grant him a second chance. Upon repenting, Jonah and Khalil are spit up onto the shore and they ride Jonah's camel Reginald to Nineveh.After Jonah is denied entrance to the city, the Pirates appear, explaining that they won the Mr. Twisty's Twisted Cheese Curls sweepstakes which grants them free access to Nineveh where they are produced. Sneaking Jonah and Khalil into the city, the group is soon arrested after Larry tries to steal the King's Cheese Curls and are sentenced to death. As a last request, they are granted an audience with King Twistomer (Apollo Gourd). Jonah then delivers the message given to him by God that the Ninevites should immediately repent of their ways forever or Nineveh will be destroyed. King Twistomer and the Ninevites quickly agree.Still expecting God to destroy Nineveh for their past sins, Jonah watches and waits from a distance in the hot sun. Feeling compassion for Jonah, God provides a plant to shade Jonah, only for Khalil to eat a single leaf off the plant, which kills it. Jonah laments the dead plant, and Khalil is disappointed that Jonah shows compassion for a plant, but not the Ninevites. Khalil then tries to explain that God is compassionate and merciful and that he wants to give everyone, both Israelites and non-Israelites, a second chance. Jonah refuses to accept this and states that it would be better if he was dead. The story ends with Khalil and Reginald leaving Jonah to his sulking.Back in the present day, the Veggies are disappointed in the anti-climactic ending, but come to understand the point of the story: God wants everybody to show compassion and mercy, even to those that do not seem to deserve it. Twippo then appears in the restaurant unexpectedly and offers to give everybody a lift to the concert, while Bob forgives Dad Asparagus and Junior gives his Twippo ticket to Laura. The film ends with a song and the arrival of a tow truck driver, who is none other than Khalil.