The Master of Disguise is a 2002 American comedy adventure film directed by Perry Andelin Blake in his directorial debut and written by Dana Carvey and Harris Goldberg. Starring Carvey, Jennifer Esposito, Harold Gould, James Brolin, and Brent Spiner, the film was produced by Adam Sandler through his Happy Madison production company.In Italy, 1979, Fabbrizio Disguisey, the latest in a long line of secret agents known as "Masters of Disguise", breaks up a smuggling ring run by the evil Devlin Bowman. Bowman is arrested and Fabbrizio decides to keep his family's identity a secret from his infant son, Pistachio.Twenty-three years later, Fabbrizio runs an Italian restaurant in America with his wife and Pistachio. Bowman, fresh out of jail, kidnaps Fabbrizio and "Mama", forcing Fabbrizio to use his powers to steal legendary artifacts. After Fabbrizio's disappearance, Pistachio is visited by his grandfather, who reveals Pistachio's heritage and begins training him.Pistachio gets the basics down and his grandfather gets him an assistant, Jennifer Baker, who is a little confused about what the job entails. The two find one of Bowman's cigars and learn of Bowman's scheme, as well as that he will be at an antiques fair the next day.Pistachio and Jennifer go to the fair, with Pistachio disguised as an elderly woman. Bowman invites Jennifer to a party at his house. Pistachio goes to the party in disguise and distracts Bowman while Jennifer looks for clues.That night, Pistachio and Jennifer look through the clues. Pistachio takes Jennifer home. They kiss. Bowman's men kidnap Jennifer. Pistachio breaks into Bowman's house to rescue Jennifer and his parents. Bowman has attached a mask of his own face to Fabbrizio's head. While the real Bowman escapes, Pistachio fights his father, who is brainwashed to believe he is Bowman.In the end, Pistachio helps his father snap out his trance, they free Mama, return the artifacts, Pistachio marries Jennifer and becomes an official Master of Disguise. However, Bowman still has the United States Constitution. The Disguiseys locate Bowman, defeat him and retrieve the Constitution.