Duets is a 2000 American road trip film co-produced and directed by Bruce Paltrow and written by John Byrum. The motion picture features an ensemble cast co-starring Gwyneth Paltrow, Paul Giamatti, Maria Bello, Scott Speedman, Andre Braugher, Huey Lewis and Angie Dickinson, among others.[1] The movie "revolves around the little known world of karaoke competitions and the wayward characters who inhabit it."[1]The story revolves around unrelated pairs of people who spend time in karaoke bars across the United States in the week leading up to a big contest in Omaha.
Ricky Dean (Huey Lewis) is a hustler on the karaoke circuit, who travels from town to town feigning ambivalence of karaoke, then winning both the contests and side-bets with locals. He is detoured by a phone call and travels to Las Vegas for the funeral of an ex-girlfriend; while there, he meets his daughter Liv (Gwyneth Paltrow), with whom he hasn't made contact with for many years. Seeking a father figure after the death of her mother, she joins him against his wishes on the road, both singing solos at karaoke bars. They are involved in a bar fight when one of Ricky's marks retaliates.
Depressed California salesman Todd Woods (Paul Giamatti) is so exhausted from business travel that he doesn't even know what city he's in; and when he gets home, his wife Candy (Kiersten Warren) and two children are too self-absorbed to even say hello. Bored, he walks out on his family and his old life, and begins to drive aimlessly around the country. He wanders into a karaoke bar in New Mexico, where a fellow participant offers him beta blockers to help him overcome his anxiety and stage fright. He gets hooked on the drugs as he keeps driving, and in Utah he picks up hitchhiker Reggie Kane (Andre Braugher), a charismatic but violent fugitive convict, who had already robbed the previous truck-driver who gave him a lift at gunpoint. The plucky convict is intimidated by Todd's emotionless demeanour, but the two form an unlikely and close friendship after Reggie reveals a beautiful singing voice during a duet at another karaoke bar. As they travel, Todd's mental health deteriorates further and Reggie tries his best to keep him out of trouble; he first has to drag Todd out of a hotel when he threatens the clerk with a gun; then, after Todd's careless behaviour causes a stand-off at a service station, Reggie intervenes but shoots and kills the attendant. Reggie arranges for Candy to meet them in Omaha in an attempt to reconcile them, but when she arrives, a still emotionless Todd rejects her, saying that he is finished with his former life.
Cincinnati-based underachieving cab driver and one-time aspiring priest Billy (Scott Speedman) goes on a drinking binge after catching his partner cheating on him; he meets Suzi Loomis (Maria Bello), an attractive, broke drifter who gets by on karaoke contest prizes and sexual favours. He rejects her offers of sex, and neither particularly respects the other's lifestyle, but he nonetheless agrees to drive her to California, stopping at karaoke bars for Suzi to compete along the way.
All three pairs end up at the Omaha contest, each having won the right to compete there for $5,000 by virtue of winning in one of the smaller towns. Finally accepting his daughter, Ricky invites her to perform a duet with him of her mother's favourite song, Cruisin'. Billy discovers that Suzi's confidence is fake when he finds her sitting on the floor in the ladies' room, vomiting in the toilet from stage fright, but he convinces her to compete. After Reggie sees the police arrive at the contest, investigating the service station shooting, he performs an a cappella version of Free Bird before pulling a gun on stage, prompting police to shoot him; giving Todd the chance to put the full blame for the service station shooting on him, so Todd can return to his old life.After the contest, Billy and Suzi continue on their way to California. Billy invites Liv (with whom he had been flirting/bantering with at the contest) and Ricky to join them, and they resolve to take a slight detour to another karaoke contest in Nevada. Todd and Candy contemplate reconciliation, but the fate of their relationship is left open.