The Emperor's New Groove is a 2000 American animated buddy comedy film created by Walt Disney Feature Animation. It is the 40th film in Disney's animated features canon. It was directed by Mark Dindal, produced by Randy Fullmer, written by David Reynolds, and stars David Spade, John Goodman, Eartha Kitt, Patrick Warburton and Wendie Malick.Kuzco, a young selfish Inca emperor, rejects the appearances of potential brides and throws an elderly man out the window for "throwing off his groove." After Kuzco fires his conniving advisor, Yzma, for abusing her power, she comes up with a scheme to take the throne with the help of Kronk, her dim-witted but jovial henchman. Later, Kuzco meets with Pacha, a kind peasant and village leader, and tells him that he plans to demolish his hilltop family home to build himself a lavish summer home called "Kuzcotopia". Pacha protests, but is dismissed.Yzma and Kronk make a plan to get rid of Kuzco by tricking him into drinking poison at dinner, but end up giving him the wrong potion that instead transforms him into a llama. After knocking Kuzco out, Yzma orders Kronk to dispose of him and hide the body, but Kronk has a stroke of conscience and saves him. He accidentally drops him on the back of Pacha's cart as he's leaving the city. Pacha returns home, but does not tell his family about Kuzco's decision. After awakening from the bag on the cart, scaring Pacha, Kuzco orders Pacha to take him back to the palace. Pacha uses this leverage to attempt to make Kuzco promise not to demolish the village. Kuzco haughtily sets off into the jungle alone, only to be chased by jaguars. After Pacha rescues Kuzco and they survive a waterfall, Kuzco agrees to spare the village, and Pacha agrees to help Kuzco return to the kingdom.Meanwhile, Yzma takes the throne, eulogizing Kuzco, but Kronk reveals that he had lost Kuzco rather than killing him. The two set off to find him. Kuzco and Pacha fail to return to the palace, when they fall through a bridge into a chasm full of alligators. They manage to use teamwork to climb back up the chasm, avoiding the alligators, and Kuzco manages to save Pacha's life once, proving Pacha's point that Kuzco has a good conscience. Though Kuzco admits that he wasn't going to respect their promise, Pacha continues to help Kuzco home as according to his promise. They stop at a jungle restaurant at the same time Kronk and Yzma do. Neither party realizes the other is there, until Pacha overhears Yzma and Kronk discussing their plot. Kuzco refuses to believe Pacha's warning and leaves him, but overhears Kronk and Yzma shortly after proving Pacha right. Kuzco realizes that the kingdom does not even miss him and begins to repent his way of life. He searches for Pacha and eventually finds him and attempts to apologize. Pacha quickly forgives him. Meanwhile Kronk remembers recognizing Pacha and realizes that Kuzco is likely with him.The pair rush back to Pacha's house for supplies, only to find that Kronk and Yzma are visiting Pacha's family, posing as distant relatives. Pacha enlists the help of his family to stall Yzma and Kronk, as they get a head start. The race to the palace seems to end with Yzma and Kronk falling off a cliff, but they still inexplicably reach the palace first. Yzma orders Kronk to kill them both, but Kronk cannot bring himself to commit murder, leading Yzma to insult and reprimand Kronk and resign to killing them herself. Yzma summons the guards (who do not recognize Kuzco), while Pacha and Kuzco escape with all the potions in hopes of turning Kuzco back to a human. After several guards are transformed into animals while testing potions and Yzma is transformed into a kitten, one vial remains as the trio fight over it on the outer face of the palace. Pacha and Kuzco utilize the same teamwork as they did in the chasm, and Kuzco even actively chooses to save Pacha's life over retrieving the vial in one instance. Yzma manages to get the vial, but is then inadvertently defeated by Kronk, leaving the vial for Kuzco.Now human again and a more selfless ruler, Kuzco decides to build his summer home elsewhere, and Pacha suggests a neighboring hilltop. In the end, Kuzco is shown living next door to Pacha's in a modest cabin, sharing a swimming pool with Pacha and his family. Yzma, still a kitten, grudgingly joins Kronk's Junior Chipmunk troop.