The Ring is a 2002 American supernatural psychological horror film directed by Gore Verbinski and starring Naomi Watts, Martin Henderson, and Daveigh Chase. It is a remake of the 1998 Japanese horror film Ringu, which was based on the novel of the same name, written by Koji Suzuki.High school students Katie and Becca discuss an urban legend about a cursed videotape which kills anyone who watches it seven days later. Katie admits that she watched the tape with her boyfriend and two friends the previous week. That night, Katie is killed by an unseen force, leaving her face mysteriously disfigured.At Katie's funeral, her aunt Rachel, a Seattle journalist, is asked by Katie's mother, Ruth, to investigate her death. Rachel also discovers that Katie's boyfriend and her two friends were killed in bizarre accidents on the same night as Katie. After learning that they watched the cursed videotape at Shelter Mountain Inn, Rachel travels there and watches the tape, which contains gruesome and disturbing imagery. Afterwards, she receives a phone call from an unknown caller who utters "seven days".Rachel recruits the help of Noah, the estranged father of her son, Aidan. He watches it and Rachel makes him a copy at his request. They research the tape together and eventually discover hidden imagery of a lighthouse. Rachel also identifies a woman on the tape: a horse breeder, Anna Morgan, who committed suicide after her horses were involved in a mass suicide in Moesko Island. Rachel discovers Aidan watching the videotape and tearfully informs Noah.Leaving Aidan in Ruth's care, Rachel heads for Moesko Island to speak to Anna's widower, Richard. At the same time, Noah travels to Eola Psychiatric Hospital to view Anna's medical files, which contains missing footage. On the ferry to the island, Rachel's cursed presence unintentionally drives a horse to leap off the ferry, where it is mangled to death by the propellers. On the island, she discovers Anna had an adopted daughter, Samara, but Richard denies it.Rachel speaks with the island doctor, who explains that Anna could not conceive and so adopted Samara. Samara possessed an uncontrolled ability to psychically etch images onto objects and into the minds of her parents and their horses, tormenting them. Noah also learns of Samara's existence and heads for the island.Rachel sneaks into the Morgan house and watches the missing footage, which is revealed to be Samara explaining her powers during a psychotherapy session and it is implied that she was the one who drove the horses to commit suicide. Richard discovers her and strikes her. Realizing that Samara's evil is still at large, he electrocutes himself in the bathtub. Noah arrives and he and Rachel enter the barn. In a loft converted to Samara's bedroom to isolate her from her mother, they find an image of a tree behind the wallpaper; Rachel realizes it is the image of a tree at the Shelter Mountain Inn.Rachel and Noah discover a stone water well beneath the floorboards. They remove the lid but Rachel is pushed inside. A hand grabs her, and Rachel experiences a vision of Anna suffocating and pushing Samara into the well, where she survived for seven days. Samara's corpse surfaces from the water and Rachel tries to appease her spirit by giving her a proper burial. Afterwards, Noah informs Rachel that seven days have passed since she watched the cursed videotape, leading them to believe that the curse is broken.Aidan warns Rachel that the curse is not over by telling her that Samara never sleeps. Rachel realizes that Noah is next and rushes to save him, but the vengeful ghost of Samara crawls out of his television and kills him. Rachel finds his disfigured corpse and returns home to destroy the tape. She realizes that she was spared because she made a copy and showed it to Noah. Rachel decides to save Aidan by making him a copy as they plan to show it to someone else.