Unfaithful is a 2002 American thriller drama film directed by Adrian Lyne and starring Richard Gere, Diane Lane, Chad Lowe, Dominic Chianese, and Olivier Martinez. It was adapted by Alvin Sargent and William Broyles Jr. from the French film The Unfaithful Wife (La Femme infidèle, 1968) by the noted director Claude Chabrol. It tells about a couple living in suburban New York City whose marriage goes dangerously awry when the wife indulges in an adulterous affair with a stranger she encounters by chance.Edward (Richard Gere) and Connie Sumner (Diane Lane) are a married couple living in the northern suburbs of New York City (Westchester County, New York) with their 8-year-old son, Charlie (Erik Per Sullivan). Their relationship is loving, but familiar and lacking excitement. One afternoon, Connie goes shopping for Charlie's upcoming birthday party. She is caught in a heavy windstorm, and runs into a handsome stranger (Olivier Martinez). They both fall, and Connie scrapes her knees. He offers to treat her injuries in his Soho apartment, and she accepts. He introduces himself as Paul Martel, a 27-year-old book dealer. Paul makes small advances toward Connie, which makes her uncomfortable, and she decides to leave. Before doing so, Paul gives her a book of Persian poetry as a gift. After returning home, Connie tells Edward what happened, and he suggests they buy Paul a thank-you gift.While reading the book Paul gave her, Connie finds his phone number inside. Connie calls Paul from Grand Central Station for his address, but he invites her over for coffee instead. Paul reads Connie a book in Braille amidst mild flirting. Connie, despite her feelings of attraction, leaves. Connie is unable to stop thinking about Paul, and decides to visit him with a bag of muffins. After Connie and Paul have a dance, she stops, saying she can't continue, and leaves. When she returns to retrieve her coat, Paul literally sweeps her off her feet and into his bed. While on the train ride home via the Metro-North Railroad, Connie, in tears, recalls their sexual encounter in flashbacks. She is thrilled by the sexual attention she is receiving from a younger man, but feels guilty at the same time. Connie uses her work for a charity event as an excuse to go into the city to visit Paul more frequently. Edward almost immediately senses something and sees subtle changes in her, which is confirmed by an inconsistency in an excuse she uses to visit the city one day. One morning he notices that Connie is fixing herself up to go into the city, with brand new shoes and lingerie draped over a chair, and he tells Connie he will wait for her so they can go into the city together. She urges him to go without her, that she won't be ready for quite a while, so he tries to get her to agree to meet him for lunch, but she says she has a salon appointment and won't be able to meet him. Later on, at the office, suspecting Connie is lying, Edward calls the salon she mentioned and it is confirmed that she doesn't have an appointment that day.Edward hires a private investigator, Frank Wilson (Dominic Chianese), to follow her. Frank returns with pictures of Connie and Paul together, which devastates Edward. Connie's visits with Paul become more frequent, to the point that she is late to pick up Charlie from school. Following this incident, she realizes she can no longer carry on the affair. Unsuccessfully trying to end the affair over the phone, Connie decides it would be best to do so in person. She spots Paul with another woman walking down the street as she approaches his neighborhood in her SUV. After following and then confronting Paul, their argument ends in a tryst in the stairwell of his apartment building. At the same time, Edward is standing outside Paul's apartment building, where Edward and Connie narrowly miss each other as she leaves out the backdoor. Edward goes to Paul's apartment and confronts him, revealing that he is Connie's husband. Edward asks to come into Paul's apartment, and after Paul lets him in, he gives Edward some vodka and they talk about Connie. Edward asks how Paul and Connie met, and while walking around the apartment, Edward is stunned to see a snow globe by the bed, which he recognizes as a gift he gave to Connie. Paul reveals that Connie gave it to him as a gift. Feeling sick and disoriented, Edward sits down on the bed and Paul asks if he would like some water. Edward suddenly has a mental breakdown and hits Paul with the snow globe, severely fracturing his skull and instantly killing him.After wrapping Paul's body in a rug and cleaning up evidence of the murder and of his own presence in the apartment, Edward hears Connie leaving a message on Paul's answering machine, saying she must end the affair. Edward erases all the messages and leaves, putting Paul's body in the trunk of his car. Edward joins his wife at Charlie's school play, and late that night while Connie is sleeping, drives to a landfill and dumps Paul's body. In the ensuing days, Paul's murder plagues Edward, who is unable to stop thinking about what he has done. When two NYPD detectives arrive at the Sumner home while Edward is at work, they explain to Connie that Paul's estranged wife had reported him missing, and that they found Connie's name and phone number on his desk. Connie claims she barely knows him and that she was interested in buying books from him. A week later, the detectives return and tell Connie and Edward that Paul's body has been discovered. When police ask Connie how she met Paul, she replies that they met at a Julliard fundraiser. To Connie's surprise, Edward corroborates her story. The detectives ask if Connie has ever been to Paul's apartment, and Connie denies even being in the Soho neighborhood any time recently. However, the police tell her that she had in fact received a parking ticket in front of Paul's apartment just a month earlier. Connie replies that she forgot about a day that she met friends for coffee at a Soho café. Several days later, Connie finds the investigator's photos of her and Paul when she takes Edward's clothes to the drycleaner, and realizes that Edward knows about the affair. That night, during a party at their home, Connie notices that the snow globe has been returned to their collection. Connie looks over at Edward, he meets her gaze knowingly, and she realizes that Edward murdered Paul.Connie and Edward argue and, out of anger and frustration, Edward says that he wanted to kill her instead of Paul. In the days that follow, while looking at the underside of the snow globe, Connie discovers a hidden compartment containing a photograph of her, Edward, and an infant Charlie, with a loving anniversary message instructing her not to read the message until their 25th wedding anniversary. As Connie is burning the photographs of her and Paul in the fireplace, Edward says he will turn himself in. Connie objects, saying they will find a way to move on. The two then appear to go about living a normal life. One night, while driving, with Charlie sleeping in the backseat, Edward stops the car at an intersection. Connie whispers to Edward that they could leave the country and assume new identities, and Edward agrees to the idea. Connie then starts crying, and Edward consoles her. It is revealed that Edward has stopped his car near a police station, signifying the constant fear of retribution they will endure for the rest of their lives.