Bringing Down the House is a 2003 American comedy film written by Jason Filardi and directed by Adam Shankman. The film stars Steve Martin and Queen Latifah.Peter Sanderson (Steve Martin) is an uptight workaholic tax attorney in his 50s. He is separated from his wife Kate (Jean Smart), who has an extremely unpleasant sister Ashley (Missi Pyle). Peter and Kate have two children, 15-year-old Sarah (Kimberly J. Brown) and 8-year-old Georgie (Angus T. Jones).Online, Peter has been conversing with a woman who seems ideal to him, "lawyer-girl", who appears to be a blond, successful, and well-educated lawyer. He sets up a blind date at his house, and is shocked to see that lawyer-girl is in fact Charlene Morton (Queen Latifah), a convicted felon who wants Peterto help her get her record cleared. Peter tries to throw her out, but reluctantly lets her stay overnight in the guest room.At the law office, Peter’s friend Howie Rottman (Eugene Levy) is helping Peter’s attempt to land a huge contract with a wealthy client, Mrs. Virginia Arness (Joan Plowright). Howie finds Charlene very attractive as soon as he meets her, and is actively wooing her during most of the film.Charlene is very determined, and despite Peter’s rejection, she keeps reappearing at Peter’s home, his office, and other places where he visits. She comes very close to ruining his chances of landing the big contract. However, it becomes apparent that although she is from a very different social stratum than Peter, and has a self-presentation which is the polar opposite of his, she is nonetheless kind, intelligent, ingenious, and well-educated in the law, thanks to the studying she did while she was incarcerated.At one point, Charlene is forced to “pass” as the nanny of Peter’s children. She ends up genuinely making friends with the children, and she is able to help Peter’s son Georgie overcome his inability to read, as well as forcibly sorting out Peter’s daughter Sarah’s boyfriend problems.Charlene even helps Peter himself learn to loosen up a lot more, so he has a chance of being successful in winning his wife back again, which is what he wants more than anything else.As the movie ends, Peter has set up a small law firm with Howie, who is now in a relationship with Charlene, and Peter is much less of a workaholic and succeeds in winning his wife’s affections back.