Darkness Falls is a 2003 American-Australian supernatural horror film written by Joe Harris and John Fasano, and directed by Jonathan Liebesman. The film stars Chaney Kley and Emma Caulfield. The film's narrative follows Kyle Walsh (Kley), who witnesses his mother’s murder. Twelve years later, he returns to his childhood home because Michael Greene (Lee Cormie), the young brother of his romantic interest Caitlin (Caulfield), is being stalked by Kyle's mother’s supernatural killer. Kyle must protect them from this powerful enemy and put an end to its killing spree.In the town of Darkness Falls, widow Matilda Dixon was adored by the town's children. She gave them gifts and gold coins when they lost teeth, earning her the nickname Tooth Fairy. A fire in her home left her face disfigured and sensitive to light; she wore a white porcelain mask and only left her house at night. The town's adults were suspicious of Matilda; they blamed her when two children went missing. They hanged her and exposed her face to light. Dying, Matilda swore vengeance. When the two missing children returned home unharmed, the townsfolk realized their mistake and quickly buried Matilda's body. The story of Matilda, the Tooth Fairy, became a legend; her dark spirit visits children on the night they lose their last baby tooth. If anyone sees her when she visits, they are marked for her vengeance.Kyle Walsh, an antisocial teenager befriended by Caitlin Greene (Emily Browning), loses his last baby tooth. That night he sees Matilda and realizes the story is true. Knowing light is her weakness, he shines a flashlight into her face and hides in the brightly-lit bathroom. His mother is killed after seeing Matilda. The next morning, police arrive and Kyle is taken to a mental hospital after mistaken speculations that he killed his mother.Twelve years later, Caitlin (Emma Caulfield) telephones Kyle (Chaney Kley) to ask for his help with her younger brother Michael (Lee Cormie), who refuses to sleep in the dark. Kyle still suffers fear and paranoia from his encounter with Matilda; he has dozens of flashlights and medications for anxiety and depression. Kyle visits Michael at the hospital but denies any relation to his condition and walks away from Caitlin, who believes his story.Kyle tries to warn others of Matilda but faces ridicule and skepticism, which leads to the death of many townspeople. A lightning storm blacks out the whole town; realizing Michael and Caitlin are in danger, Kyle rushes to the hospital. He rescues them and gains allies as others realize his story is true. Kyle, Michael, and Caitlin hide in the local lighthouse. They are helped by several medical personnel, all of whom are killed by Matilda.During the struggle, Matilda tries to kill Kyle, but before she can do so, the lighthouse lights up. The sudden exposure to light causes her pain; she drops her mask. Kyle sees her disfigured face and realizes she is now vulnerable. She resumes her attack, during which Kyle's right sleeve catches fire and he kills Matilda by striking her face with it.As the film ends, a boy is being tucked into bed by his parents. He is scared because he has just lost his last baby tooth. He finds his mother replaced the tooth with a gold coin, showing that Matilda and her curse are gone.