Le Divorce is a 2003 Merchant Ivory Productions film directed by James Ivory from a screenplay by Ruth Prawer Jhabvala and Ivory, based on Diane Johnson's best-selling novel of the same name.Isabel Walker (Kate Hudson) travels to Paris to visit her sister, poet Roxy (Watts), who lives with her husband, Frenchman Claude-Henri, and her young daughter, Gennie. Roxy is pregnant, but her husband has just walked out on her without explanation. Isabel discovers that he has a married Russian lover, Magda Tellman, whom he intends to marry after securing a divorce from Roxy. Roxy refuses to divorce him.Paris-based American author Olivia Pace (Glenn Close), a friend of Roxy's, offers Isabel a job. The sisters visit the Claide-Henri's family's country home for Sunday brunch, where Isabel meets Claude-Henri's mother (Leslie Caron), and her handsome middle-aged brother-in-law, Edgar.Isabel also meets Yves, Olivia's protégé, and they begin an affair. At the same time, she is attracted to the older, wealthy and married Edgar. The two begin an affair, although Isabel continues to string Yves along.Claude-Henri maintains a blasé attitude about his infidelity and insists on a divorce. He also hopes to benefit from the French community property laws in the divorce, especially with regard to a painting owned by his wife's family. His mistress, Magda Tellman, is married to a man who begins to stalk and harass Roxy, thinking her responsible for his wife's desertion. Claude-Henri's cruelty and insensitivity take their toll on Roxy, and she attempts suicide in late pregnancy. She survives and is supported by Isabel and her lawyer.Roxy and Isabel's parents arrive from the US, which further complicates things when Edgar 's wife, Amelie, discovers the affair through Edgar's sister and Roxy's mother-in-law. She and Claude-Henri's mother confront, not Isabel, but her mother.Magda childishly teases her husband with her new relationship, and Claude-Henri is later found dead, murdered by Magda's husband in a crime of passion. Tellman then follows the sisters on a family outing to the Eifell Tower, where he corners them and pulls a gun, demanding an opportunity to explain to an absent Roxy why he killed her husband. After some persuasion, the distraught Tellman releases the gun to Isabel, who drops it into a Kelly bag, an expensive gift from Edgar, before throwing it off the Eiffel Tower.Edgar, persuaded by his socially conscious family's concern, and tiring of his young lover, casually ends his affair with Isabel with a Chanel scarf and a lunch.After Roxy's baby is born, she marries her lawyer. Isabel begins a real relationship with Yves. The disputed family painting of Saint Ursula by Georges de la Tour, rejected by the Louvre as worthless, sells for 4.5 million Euros, and because its ownership is no longer disputed on Claude-Henri's death, the money goes to the Walker family.