Holes is a 2003 American adventure comedy-drama film directed by Andrew Davis, produced by Lowell D. Blank, Mike Medavoy and Teresa Tucker-Davies with music by Joel McNeely and based on the 1998 eponymous novel by Louis Sachar (who also wrote the screenplay). The film stars Sigourney Weaver, Jon Voight, Patricia Arquette, Tim Blake Nelson and Shia LaBeouf. The film was co-produced by Walden Media and Walt Disney Pictures and distributed in many markets by Disney's distribution company Buena Vista.Stanley Yelnats IV is a good-hearted teenager born to a Texas family who have been cursed to be unlucky – a misfortune they blame on their ancestor Elya's failure to keep a promise to a fortune teller decades ago in Latvia. One day, Stanley is falsely arrested for stealing a pair of sneakers that were donated to charity by a famous baseball player. Upon conviction, Stanley decides to attend Camp Green Lake, a juvenile detention camp, in lieu of serving his time in jail.He arrives to find that the camp is a dried-up lake run by the Warden, Louise Walker, her assistant Mr. Sir, and camp counselor Dr. Kiowa Pendanski. Prisoners who are known by their nicknames – including Zero, Armpit, Zig-Zag, Squid, X-Ray, and Magnet – spend each day digging holes in the desert to "build character". The inmates are told that if they find anything interesting, they may earn a day off. After finding a golden lipstick tube initialed K.B. and a fossil, Stanley is accepted into the group and is given the nickname Caveman. After taking the blame for Magnet's stealing of Mr. Sir's sunflower seeds, Stanley is taken to the warden's house where old wanted posters and newspapers lead him to suspect that "KB" stands for Kate Barlow. Walker asks Stanley to grab her box of nail polish and mentions that it contains rattlesnake venom. After he and Mr. Sir explain what happened with the sunflower seeds, Walker injures Mr. Sir and allows Stanley to return to his hole.In a series of flashbacks, the history of Camp Green Lake is revealed: it was once a flourishing lakeside community. Katherine Barlow, a local schoolteacher, is involved in a love triangle with the wealthy Charles "Trout" Walker, who Kate rejects, and an African-American onion seller named Sam, who Kate loves. After much turmoil, Walker kills Sam and in retaliation, Kate kills the local sheriff for allowing Sam's murder, and gains notoriety as a robber. With Sam dead, Green Lake dries up and the town is abandoned. Years later, the now bankrupt Walker and his wife track down Kate and demand she hand over her treasure. Kate refuses and tells them to dig for the treasure, after which Kate dies from a lizard bite and the Walkers set about digging for the treasure.In the present, Pendanski insults Zero, whose name is revealed to be Hector, and Hector responds by hitting Pendanski with a shovel and running into the desert. After some deliberation, Stanley sets out to find Hector. The pair have difficulty surviving in the desert without water. Eventually, Stanley carries the now ill Hector up the mountain where they find a wild field of onions and a source of water, helping them regain strength; at the same time, Stanley unknowingly fulfills his ancestor's promise to the fortune teller and breaks the curse. While camping on the mountain, Stanley discovers that Hector stole the sneakers and threw them over the bridge to evade the police.Returning to the camp, Stanley and Hector investigate the hole where Stanley found the lipstick and discover a chest before they are found by Walker, Mr. Sir, and Pendanski. After escaping the warden with the help of some lizards, it is revealed that Walker is Charles's granddaughter, who is using the inmates to search for treasure. The next morning, the attorney general and Stanley's lawyer arrive, the chest Stanley found is discovered to belong to his great-grandfather before it was stolen by Kate. Walker, Mr. Sir, who is revealed to be a paroled criminal named Marion Sevillo, and Pendanski, who is a criminal impersonating a doctor, are arrested for their actions. Stanley and Zero are released and it rains in Green Lake for the first time in over 100 years. The Yelnats family claims ownership of the chest which contains jewels, deeds, and promissory notes, which they share with Hector, and both families live a life of financial ease as neighbors.