The Italian Job is a 2003 American heist film directed by F. Gary Gray, written by Wayne and Donna Powers and produced by Donald DeLine. The film stars Mark Wahlberg, Charlize Theron, Jason Statham, Edward Norton, Seth Green, Mos Def and Donald Sutherland. It is an American remake of the 1969 British film of the same name, and is about a team of thieves who plan to steal gold from a former associate who double-crossed them. Despite the shared title, the plot and characters of this film differ from those of its source material; Gray described the film as "an homage to the original."[4]John Bridger, a professional safecracker, has assembled a team to steal 35 million dollars worth of gold bullion from a safe in Venice, held by Italian gangsters who had stolen it weeks earlier. The team includes Charlie Croker, a professional thief; Lyle, or Napster, a computer expert; Handsome Rob, their wheelman; Steve, their inside man; and Left Ear, their explosives expert. They successfully complete the theft by stealing the actual safe and stealing the gold from it after the safe lands underwater while the gangsters are occupied with a decoy led by Rob and Napster. After leaving the city, the team agrees to split up the gold and part ways once they return to the United States. However, Steve turns on them: in the Alps near Austrian border, he and his own men intercept their van on a bridge and take the gold. When John confronts him, Steve kills him. Rob drives the van into the lake off a bridge, where they keep themselves alive using oxygen tanks from the heist. Steve assumes they are dead and leaves with the gold.A year later, Charlie and the others have returned to the States and have located Steve under his new false identity, changing his last name to Frazelli, moving to Los Angeles and laundering the gold for money through a Ukrainian jewelry store owner named Yevhen. Charlie goes to Philadelphia and meets with Stella Bridger, John's estranged daughter and also a skilled private safecracker working for the police, who is furious with him, believing that Charlie was responsible for the death of her father, but Charlie instead convinces her to help get revenge on Steve by helping with the heist to steal back the gold.The group monitor Steve's expensive mansion in Los Angeles, identifying the various security details. Charlie gets in contact with an associate, Skinny Pete, to obtain explosives for Left Ear, to blow the mansion gates, and Rob obtains three heavily modified Mini Coopers and calls in his friend Wrench, a car mechanic, to modify them so that they will be able to drive through the mansion and carry the gold out. Charlie guides Stella, disguised as a cable repair representative, through Steve's mansion to scope out its interior using a hidden camera. Steve flirts with Stella while she is there, unaware of her connection to John, and she decides go on a date with Steve to draw him out of his house, allowing them to steal the gold. However, the group finds that Steve's neighbors are having a party, and their use of explosives will certainly draw attention, so they bail on the plan. During their date, Stella accidentally reveals her connection to John to Steve by citing a proverb that John always used to say. Steve becomes suspicious and demands to know who she is working for. The team then intervenes and enters the restaurant, and Steve is shocked that they have survived, but then taunts Charlie over John's death and the reveal of the plan, causing Charlie to punch him in the face before leaving.Following this, Steve becomes paranoid, knowing that Charlie and the others are likely looking to steal the gold back, and begins to launder it faster. When Yevhen unintentionally reveals his knowledge of the Venice heist, Steve kills him to keep him quiet. News of Yevhen's death reaches his cousin, Mashkov, a leading member of a Ukrainian crime family. Mashkov traces a link to Skinny Pete, since he traced the gold over Yevhen, and confronts him, and Skinny Pete is forced to reveal Charlie's involvement. Meanwhile, Steve makes plans to move his safe with the gold to Mexico, using an armored truck to transport it to a private plane waiting at Los Angeles International Airport.Napster overhears the plan, and Charlie devises a new plan to steal the gold en route to the airport by having Napster gain control of the downtown traffic light system as to be able to guide the armored truck to a specific location. On the day of transport, they are surprised when three trucks leave Steve's mansion with Steve monitoring them overhead by helicopter, but soon determine that two are decoys. Napster successfully routes the target truck to a staging point, out of Steve's sight. Left Ear detonates part of the street, sending the van into the Metro rail tunnel where the others are waiting. Knowing that Steve will have sent out pursuit vehicles on losing sight of the truck, Stella is able to successfully crack the safe, and they load the gold into the Mini Coopers, which are small enough to fit through the storm drain tunnels. They are able to stay just ahead of Steve's armed men and make it through part of the Los Angeles River bed onto the streets, where Napster, still in control of the traffic system, is able to create a green wave to allow them to easily flee. Charlie lures Steve away from the other two as they head for Union Station, forcing Steve to land his helicopter and pursue in a stolen truck.At Union Station, the cars are loaded onto a train car with the help of Wrench. Steve arrives shortly thereafter and after bribing Wrench, is surprised to find Charlie and the others waiting for him. Steve brandishes a gun and demands his gold back, but Mashkov arrives; Charlie explains that he has offered Mashkov part of the gold and Steve in exchange for helping with security protection. Steve is punched in the face by Stella before being taken away by Mashkov, who reveals he will be tortured and killed. The group boards the train as it departs to New Orleans, and celebrate in John's honor. The epilogue shows them all having used their share of the gold for their own desired purposes; Handsome Rob purchases an Aston Martin Vanquish, Left Ear buys a mansion in southern Spain, while Napster buys a powerful stereo capable of blowing a woman's clothes off. Meanwhile, Charlie takes John's advice about finding someone he wants to spend the rest of his life with, and he and Stella travel to Venice together.