Jeepers Creepers 2 is a 2003 American horror film written and directed by Victor Salva,[3] produced by American Zoetrope, Capitol Films, Myriad Pictures and distributed by United Artists, a Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer division. The film is a sequel to the 2001 horror film Jeepers Creepers. Francis Ford Coppola executive produced the film. The sequel to Jeepers Creepers 2 was originally scheduled to be released in 2017 before production was halted. Production resumed on February 20, 2017 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana.Three days after the events of the first film, the Creeper, disguised as a scarecrow, abducts young Billy Taggart in front of Taggart Sr. and Billy's older brother, Jack Jr. The following day, a school bus carrying a high school basketball team and cheerleaders suffers a blowout, after one of the wheels is hit by a hand-crafted shuriken made out of bone.Cheerleader Minxie has a vision of Billy and Darry Jenner, the Creeper's victim from the first film, who both attempt to warn her about the Creeper, which then blows out another tire, disabling the bus. With the party stranded, the Creeper abducts the coaches and the bus driver, and singles out several of the occupants: Dante, Jake, Scotty, Bucky, and especially Double D. Minxie has another vision in which Darry explains that every twenty-third spring, for twenty-three days, the creature emerges from hibernation and hunts victims for specific body parts which it then consumes in order to replace those of its own, which she relays to the others.After hearing numerous police reports, the Taggarts go hunting for the Creeper and make radio contact with the school bus. The Creeper attacks Bucky and is injured, and then kills Dante, using his severed head as a replacement for its own. The students leave the bus, where they are again attacked and chased into a field, where the Creeper kills Jake and takes Scotty. After the Creeper attacks Bucky at the bus again, Taggart shoots it with a home-made harpoon; however the Creeper escapes and flips the truck. Izzy, Rhonda, and Double D attempt to escape in a truck and are chased by the Creeper, causing the vehicle to crash. Despite missing an arm and leg, the Creeper continues to stalk Double D until Taggart intervenes by shooting it with a harpoon again. Taggart repeatedly stabs the Creeper in the chest and face but the creature goes into a hibernation state before it can die.Twenty-three years later, a group of teenagers drive to Taggart's farm, where the Creeper is a sideshow attraction. They notice Taggart watching it with a harpoon gun at his side. When they ask him if he is waiting for something, Taggart looks up at the Creeper and says, "About three more days, give or take a day or two."