Love Don't Cost a Thing (stylized as Love Don't Co$t a Thing) is a 2003 American teen comedy film written and directed by Troy Beyer and starring Nick Cannon and Christina Milian. It also stars Steve Harvey, Kenan Thompson and Kal Penn. The film is a remake of the 1987 film Can't Buy Me Love.


This article needs an improved plot summary. (October 2015)

Alvin Johnson (Nick Cannon) is an extremely intelligent nerd under consideration for a General Motors scholarship, as he is skilled in designing engines. He has also taken up a job as a pool cleaner, to raise money to buy an expensive car part. He's always dreamed of hanging out with the popular kids, especially Paris Morgan (Christina Milian), a beautiful, popular cheerleader dating NBA star Dru Hilton. When Paris crashes her mother's expensive SUV during an argument with Dru, Alvin agrees to repair the car in return for two weeks of dating. Alvin uses money he had saved all summer for his project, jeopardizing his scholarship.After a few missteps, Alvin begins to integrate himself with the popular crowd. He and Paris grow closer as she shares with him her secret love of music. As they draw close to the end of the two weeks, Alvin takes Paris out on their last day being "together". Paris hints that she would like to kiss Alvin, showing that she does in fact have feelings for him, but he misinterprets her feelings and instead stages a break-up planned for the next day at school. Paris was really in love with him after spending two weeks together, even though Alvin was unaware of it. Alvin continues to grow in popularity, alienating his former nerd friends and dating Paris's friends. In the meantime Paris starts to realize just how shallow and vapid most of her popular friends really are and she starts to question being a part of this group. At the end of the year on Senior Ditch Day, Dru returns, but leaves after he finds out Paris had been dating Alvin. In an attempt to get him back, Paris exposes her deal with Alvin to the whole school, returning him to mediocrity and being a geek.Alvin's father Clarence (Steve Harvey) agrees to pay for the part, explaining to Alvin that he'd supported his sudden transformation because he wanted him to have some of the same experiences he did in high school. Alvin fixes a car he and his nerd friends had been working on the duration of the film. There is a school basketball game, and the nerds are threatened by the athletes to move to sit somewhere else. At the basketball game, Alvin stands up for his nerd friends against the basketball players. Alvin finally redeems himself in front of everyone. Alvin's nerd friends begin dating popular girls too. Alvin leaves the gymnasium, and as Paris follows him out, she is stopped by Dru, but Paris blows him off for Alvin and they kiss.