May is a 2002 American psychological horror film written and directed by Lucky McKee[2] in his directorial debut. Starring Angela Bettis, Jeremy Sisto, Anna Faris, and James Duval, the film follows a lonely young woman (Bettis) traumatized by a difficult childhood, and her increasingly desperate attempts to connect with the people around her.May Dove Canady is an awkward, lonely young woman, who suffered from a rough childhood due to her lazy eye. She has very few social interactions, her only "true friend" being a glass-encased doll named Suzie made by her mother and given to May for her birthday with the adage "If you can't find a friend, make one." May works at a veterinary hospital, assisting with surgeries. Her optometrist fixes May's lazy eye, first with glasses, then with contact lens. May becomes friends with Adam, a local mechanic. She has a fixation on his hands, which she considers to be the most attractive part of him, and they start dating. May's lesbian colleague Polly begins to flirt with May. One day, May remarks that Polly has a beautiful neck. They become friends and Polly gives her pet cat Lupe to May.May invites Adam to her apartment and he shows her a film he made for his university titled Jack and Jill. The film reveals a story of two young lovers who go on a picnic and end up eating each other. May becomes aroused by the cannibalism in the film. During an intense make-out session, she bites Adam on the lip and it bleeds. Disturbed by her strange behavior, Adam abruptly leaves. May shouts at Suzie and shoves her in the cupboard. She begins volunteering at a school for blind children. She gives in to Polly's wishes and starts a short affair. Adam stops calling her and May overhears him say that he's glad he could get rid of her. Heartbroken, she visits Polly, and finds her with another girl named Ambrosia. When even Lupe refuses to come near her, May becomes enraged and kills Lupe. She becomes delusional and believes that Suzie is talking to her.May takes Suzie to school and tells the blind children that Suzie is her best friend. The children struggle to take the doll out of the glass case, and the case shatters. May and the children are cut by the broken glass. Scooping up the ruined doll, May returns home devastated. The following day, she meets a punk boy named Blank. He asks her if she wants to get some candy with him and she accepts. May doesn't like him, but likes the tattoo on his arm. At her house, Blank finds the cat's corpse and calls May a freak; she stabs him in the head.On Halloween night, May dresses in a homemade costume resembling Suzie and goes to Polly's house. She slits Polly's throat. When Ambrosia arrives, May admires her legs and stabs Ambrosia. Next, she kills Adam and his new girlfriend, Hoop. At home, she designs her "new friend", Amy (an anagram of her own name), a life-sized patchwork doll made from Blank's arms, Polly's neck, Adam's hands, Ambrosia's legs, and Hoop's ears. She uses Lupe's fur for the hair. The head and torso are stuffed fabric stitched together. May realizes that Amy has no eyes and can't "see" her, so she gouges out her lazy eye, fatally injuring herself. Crying in pain and bleeding, she puts her eye on Amy's head and begs the doll to look at her. She collapses dead on the bed beside the doll and caresses it. Her creation comes to life and brushes her face affectionately with Adam's hands.