What a Girl Wants is a 2003 American teen comedy film directed by Dennie Gordon and written by Jenny Bicks and Elizabeth Chandler, based on the 1955 play The Reluctant Debutante by William Douglas-Home,[2] the second adaptation for the screen of this work. It stars Amanda Bynes, Colin Firth, Kelly Preston, and Oliver James. The film was released on April 4, 2003, received mixed reviews and grossed $50 million worldwide.Daphne Reynolds (Amanda Bynes) lives a comfortable but unsatisfying life as a young American girl with a bright future. She has never met her father. She lives with her single mother, Libby (Kelly Preston) above a Chinese Restaurant in Chinatown, New York. Believing it is in his best interest, her mother left Daphne's father seventeen years ago because of his family's disapproval of their relationship; ultimately, his father's secretary threw her out of the house, without Libby having a chance to tell him that she was pregnant with their daughter.Daphne flies to London to get to know her father, Lord Henry Dashwood (Colin Firth), who recently inherited an Earldom but has disclaimed his seat in the House of Lords to run for election to the House of Commons to eventually become Prime Minister with Alistair Payne (Jonathan Pryce) backing him up. At a hotel, she meets Ian Wallace (Oliver James), a local boy. She notices her father on the television during a news broadcast, and tells Ian that the politician is her father.When Henry is informed of the existence of the daughter he didn't know existed, he embraces the opportunity to connect with her at the urging of his mother Jocelyn (Eileen Atkins). Her appearance causes a controversy that endangers his political ambitions. Daphne tries to win the acceptance of her father's social circle but is repeatedly thwarted by his snobby, gold-digging fiancée, Glynnis Payne (Anna Chancellor) and equally snobby step-daughter-to-be, Clarissa Payne (Christina Cole).Daphne has to ward off the advances of Armistead Stewart (Ben Scholfield), a sleazy upper-class boy whom Clarissa fancies. In the end, Daphne ends up throwing him into the Thames at the Henley Regatta when he tries to kiss her.To please her father and his social circle, she abandons her old style and dons the upper-class sophisticated look. She is noted in the British newspapers because of this.Due to her changing herself, Ian is disappointed and leaves when they were supposed to go to a concert which Daphne forgot about. During her coming-out party hosted by her father, she overhears Alastair[further explanation needed] talking to Glynnis about having "gotten rid of" Daphne's mother 17 years ago when he says how he thought he would have to do the same thing to Daphne. After Daphne tries to confront him about it, Glynnis grabs Daphne and locks her up. Glynnis then asks the band's lead singer, Ian, to announce the father-daughter dance. Glynnis, knowing that Daphne is locked up, uses this as a ploy to get Henry to dance with Clarissa. Libby rescues Daphne, but it is too late; Daphne witnesses Henry dancing with Clarissa. Daphne rejects her new self because it is not who she is. She returns to America, and restarts her work as a waitress. Henry announces in a ceremony he is no longer going to pursue his political career. On the steps on his way out, he discovers that Alastair knew about Libby's pregnancy. Henry punches Alastair in the face for concealing Daphne's existence. He then breaks off his engagement to Glynnis as it is implied that she also knew about Henry having a child.Daphne is serving at a wedding, and the father-daughter dance begins. She thinks of Henry and what she left behind, and just then, Henry shows up by boat after a long flight from London. After asking him what he's doing there, Henry informs Daphne that, while on the plane, he wrote down something that he had to tell her at least two hundred times, but is unable to find the papers. He then says that he loves her for who she is and "wouldn't change one hair on her head". Daphne, overjoyed, accepts his love and instead of calling him Henry, refers to him as "Dad".She finally gets the father-daughter dance she has been longing for her whole life, while Libby watches. Realizing that he still loves Libby, Henry informs Daphne that he has "a rather large present" for her. Ian shows up and cuts in. As he and Daphne dance, Henry goes to see Libby. He apologizes to her, Libby accepts his apology, and they kiss.In the epilogue, Glynnis gets married to a wealthy nobleman and Clarissa marries Armistead Stuart (who still has a wandering eye). Alastair becomes a tour guide in London. Libby and Henry are married in a Bedouin ceremony. This time they make sure it is legal. Daphne gets into Oxford. As the credits start to role, Daphne, Ian, Henry, Libby, and Jocelyn have a family meal outside the Dashwood manor.