Willard is a 2003 American horror film co-written and directed by Glen Morgan and starring Crispin Glover, R. Lee Ermey and Laura Elena Harring. It is loosely based on the novel Ratman's Notebooks by Stephen Gilbert, as well as the 1971 film of the same name. It was not billed as a remake by the producers, who chose instead to present it as a re-working of the themes from the original, with a stronger focus on suspense.[1]Willard Stiles (Crispin Glover) is a social misfit taking care of his ill and fragile but verbally abusive mother Henrietta (Jackie Burroughs) in a musty old mansion that is also home to a colony of rats. Willard finds himself constantly humiliated in front of his co-workers by his cruel boss, Frank Martin (R. Lee Ermey), a vicious man who assumed control of the company from Willard's father upon his death by suicide, and whose professional interest in Willard extends to a personal financial one. A co-worker, Cathryn (Laura Elena Harring), has sympathy for the quirky Willard.[2] Cathryn becomes Willard's friend and love interest.Willard quickly becomes obsessed with his friendship with a rat he names Socrates. Willard then begins to train and befriend the other rats including an extra large one he calls Ben. Ben begins to assume a position of "leadership" among the other rats, while Socrates remains Willard's favorite. After he trains the rats sufficiently, Willard takes them to Martin's home, where he orders them to chew up the tires on Martin's Mercedes. Willard's mother panics when she overhears the rats and later dies by falling down the stairs of the basement. Now, Socrates is all he has left. Willard learns soon afterward that payments on the house have fallen far behind, and that the bank will likely foreclose upon the property.Desperately lonely, Willard begins to bring Socrates to work with him. He then finds a note at his desk declaring that he's being fired by Frank Martin from the company his father founded. While he's arguing with Martin, begging not to be fired, Socrates is discovered by Ms. Leach in the supply room. Her screams alert Martin who bludgeons Socrates to death. Willard, his mental state already precarious, is devastated. He turns to Ben, who is more than willing to guide the army of basement rats to help Willard avenge himself upon his boss. Willard and his basement rats confront Martin, and upon Willard's command they swarm Martin and tear him apart.Willard, however, mistrusts Ben and attempts to dispose of him and the other rats by putting poison in the basement. He succeeds in killing some, but Ben remains, and turns the remaining rat army against Willard. Willard barely escapes with his life and kills Ben, however shortly afterwards Cathryn, who has learned of Martin's death, arrives with a couple of police detectives. An epilogue reveals that Willard has retreated into a semi-catatonic state and been placed in a mental institution. A white rat appears in his cell, which looks like Socrates. Believing that the rat is his only friend reborn, the now completely deranged Willard tells the rat "It's not over yet, no! Our time is going to come."