EuroTrip is a 2004 American-European teen comedy adventure film written by Alec Berg, David Mandel, and Jeff Schaffer, and directed by Schaffer. The film stars Scott Mechlowicz, Jacob Pitts, Michelle Trachtenberg, Travis Wester, and Jessica Boehrs. Mechlowicz portrays Scott "Scotty" Thomas, an American teenager who travels across Europe in search of his German pen pal, Mieke (Boehrs). Accompanied by his friend Cooper (Pitts) and siblings Jenny and Jamie (Trachtenberg and Wester), Scott's quest takes him to London, Paris, Amsterdam, Bratislava, Berlin, and Rome, encountering awkward and embarrassing situations along the way. The film received a 2004 Teen Choice Award nomination for Choice Movie Your Parents Didn't Want You to See.The film begins in Hudson, Ohio in 2004, where Scott "Scotty" Thomas (Scott Mechlowicz) is dumped by his girlfriend, Fiona (Kristin Kreuk), immediately after his high school graduation. With his best friend, Cooper Harris (Jacob Pitts), Scott attends a graduation party that evening where the band performs a song detailing the affair Fiona was having with the band's singer. Scott returns home drunk and angry and reads an e-mail from his German pen pal, Mieke (Jessica Boehrs), expressing sympathy for Scott and suggesting they meet in person. However, Scott has always misunderstood her name as "Mike", thinking that she is male. Cooper suggests that "Mike" may be a sexual predator, and Scott tells Mieke to stay away from him. Scott's younger brother informs him that "Mieke" is a common German girl's name. Realizing his mistake, and that he has feelings for Mieke, Scott tries to contact her again, but realises that Mieke has blocked his email address. Scott decides to travel to Europe, with Cooper, to find Mieke and apologize in person.Scott and Cooper first travel to London, where they befriend a Manchester United football hooligan firm, led by Mad Maynard (Vinnie Jones). After a night of drinking, Scott and Cooper wake up on a bus on their way to Paris for a Manchester United match. In Paris, they meet up their classmates Jenny and Jamie (Michelle Trachtenberg and Travis Wester), fraternal twins who are touring Europe together. Jenny and Jamie decide to accompany Scott and Cooper to find Mieke in Berlin. The group travels to Amsterdam, where Jamie is robbed while receiving oral sex, losing everyone's money, passports, and train tickets. They attempt to hitchhike to Berlin, but due to a language misunderstanding end up in Bratislava. Finding a great exchange rate with the U.S. dollar, the group goes to a nightclub. Drunk on absinthe, Jenny and Jamie make out with each other, witnessed by Scotty and Cooper, and are horrified when they realize what they are doing. The next day, a Slovak man drives them to Berlin. Scott and Cooper soon establish that Mieke has left with a summer tour group, and will be reachable in Rome for only a short time. Jamie sells his camera to afford plane tickets to Rome.In Rome, the friends head to the Vatican City, where Mieke is touring before her summer at sea. Inside the Vatican, Scott and Cooper search for Mieke, but accidentally signal the death of the pope and the election of a new pope. Scott appears on a balcony in papal vestments, where he is mistaken for the new pope, and spots Mieke in the crowd below. The Swiss Guards realize what is going on and detain Scott and Cooper, but they are rescued by the Manchester United hooligans. After some relationship advice from Mad Maynard, Scott is finally able to introduce himself to Mieke and confess his love. Mieke is happy to see him, and they have sex in a confessional booth. Mieke tells him to continue writing to her. On the flight back to Ohio, Jenny and Cooper have sex in one of the plane's lavatories.In the fall, Scott moves to Oberlin College. During a phone conversation with Cooper, now in a relationship with Jenny, Mieke knocks on his door, having been assigned to the same room due to another misunderstanding about her name. They embrace and get into bed together.