Friday Night Lights is a 2004 sports drama film, directed by Peter Berg, which 'documented' the coach and players of a high school football team in the Texas city of Odessa that supported and was obsessed with them. The book on which it was based, Friday Night Lights: A Town, a Team, and a Dream (1990) by H. G. Bissinger, followed the story of the 1988 Permian High School Panthers football team as they made a run towards the state championship. A television series of the same name premiered on October 3, 2006 on NBC. The film won the Best Sports Movie ESPY Award and was ranked number 37 on Entertainment Weekly's list of the Best High School Movies.[1]Bissinger followed the team for the entire 1988 season. However, the book also dealt with—or alluded to—a number of secondary political and social issues existing in Odessa, all of which shared ties to the Permian Panthers football team. These included socioeconomic disparity; racism; segregation (and desegregation); and poverty.The coach, Gary Gaines (Billy Bob Thornton), was constantly in the hot seat. Tied to the successes and failure of the coach and the team in general were the conflicts the players struggled with on and off the gridiron. The coach overused his star player, running back James "Boobie" Miles. (Derek Luke), who was seriously injured (he tore his ACL, missed the playoffs, and had a limp for the rest of his life). When this happened, sports radio shows were flooded with calls for Gaines' resignation. Miles' once-arrogant attitude vanished as he saw his once-promising chance of playing big-time college football disappear, and he questioned his future after he noticed his not-so promising academic standing. While recuperating on his uncle's veranda he observed the garbage collectors doing their rounds, got a glimpse of a different future, and burst into tears.One of the themes of the movie depicted the coach as a father-type figure for the players. For example:
Quarterback Mike Winchell (Lucas Black) struggled with being able to play consistently.
Fullback Don Billingsley (Garrett Hedlund) had a rocky relationship with his alcoholic and abusive father (Tim McGraw). Billingsley silently endured the abuse from his father, who won a state championship at Permian only to find himself unable to get into college and stuck working a dead-end job.
Third-string running back Chris Comer (Lee Thompson Young), who replaced the injured Miles, attempted to get rid of his fear of being hit and getting injured, made worse by seeing his predecessor's season-ending injury. Comer's obsession with fame and recognition also came at a high price that he was at first not ready to pay.
Safety Brian Chavez (Jay Hernandez) was easily the smartest player on the team and the most confident in his future after high school football. He ends up being accepted into Harvard College and Texas Tech Law School.
Coach Gaines triumphed and struggled with winning football games and connecting with his players numerous times during their tumultuous season. His job depended on the Panthers' making the playoffs, and his team was in a three-way tie with two other teams at the end of the regular season. Under Texas rules for ties, the tiebreaker was a coin-toss. Permian got a spot. Meanwhile, after Don Billingsley's father drunkenly threw away his championship ring, he broke down and confessed that his failures in life caused him to push his son harshly, pointing out that he wanted his son to at least have one big moment of triumph before dealing with the real world. The team made it to the finals, where they narrowly lost to powerhouse Dallas Carter High School. The movie ended with the coach removing the departing seniors from the depth chart on his wall. Notably, the depth chart has "Case" at quarterback. This referred to Permian's real-life backup quarterback in 1988, Stoney Case, who led Permian, along with Chris Comer, to the 5A state title the following year, and still later make it to the NFL.