Godzilla: Final Wars (ゴジラ ファイナルウォーズ, Gojira: Fainaru Wōzu) is a 2004 Japanese kaiju film featuring Godzilla, produced and distributed by Toho. It is the 29th film in the Godzilla franchise, the 28th Godzilla film produced by Toho, and the sixth and final film in the Millennium series. The film is directed by Ryuhei Kitamura, written by Wataru Mimura and Isao Kiriyama, and stars Masahiro Matsuoka, Rei Kikukawa, Don Frye, Maki Mizuno, Kazuki Kitamura, Kane Kosugi, Masakatsu Funaki, Kumi Mizuno, Kenji Sahara, Masami Nagasawa, Chihiro Otsuka, Shigeru Izumiya, Masato Ibu, Jun Kunimura and Akira Takarada. It is also the last Godzilla film to be produced by any studio until Godzilla (2014) and the last Godzilla film to be produced by Toho until Shin Godzilla (2016).In Antarctica, Godzilla is entrapped in ice after a battle with the original Gotengo. In 203X, environmental disasters cause the appearance of giant monsters and superhumans, dubbed "mutants", who are then recruited into the Earth Defense Force (EDF) to battle the monsters. An upgraded Gotengo, commanded by Captain Gordon, battles and destroys Manda, but in the process, the ship is wrecked and Gordon is suspended from the EDF.Mutant soldier Shinichi Ozaki is tasked with guarding a U.N. biologist, Dr. Miyuki Otonashi, who's sent to study a mummified monster. They are teleported to Infant Island where they encounter the Shobijin, fairies of Mothra, who reveal the mummified monster as Gigan, an alien cyborg sent to destroy the Earth who was ultimately defeated by Mothra. They warn that a battle between good and evil will happen soon and that Ozaki must choose a side. Giant monsters begin attacking several major cities. The EDF engage the creatures, who mysteriously vanish at the same moment when an alien mothership appears over Tokyo. The aliens, named Xiliens, warn that an incoming planet called "Gorath" will soon impact the Earth. A peace pact is signed between Earth and the Xiliens. Meanwhile, Minilla, Godzilla's son, is found in the forest by a boy and his grandfather.Distrusting the Xiliens, Ozaki, Miyuki, and her sister, Anna discovers that Gorath is actually a hologram, the Xiliens unleashed the monsters and also replaced several members of the EDF with android duplicates. After exposing them on television, the Xilien Controller reveals their actual plans to use mankind as a food source. The Controller assumes control of all of the mutants except Ozaki. The others escape while the Controller awakens Gigan and unleashes it along with the other monsters once again. Gordon convinces the group that only Godzilla can defeat the monsters and the group departs to Antarctica. Gigan is sent to destroy them but is easily destroyed by Godzilla. The Gotengo then guides Godzilla into battle with the other monsters and returns to Tokyo to engage the Xiliens. After penetrating the mothership, the group is captured and taken to the Controller.Godzilla destroys Gorath just before it crashes, unleashing Monster X. An upgraded Gigan aids Monster X but is intercepted by Mothra, who both perish in the end (although, in one of the film's post-credits sequences, Mothra is seen to be stiil alive and flying back to Infant Island). The Controller reveals that both he and Ozaki are "Keizers", super-beings with unimaginable power, and attempts to control Ozaki but is stopped by Miyuki. Ozaki defeats the Controller, who sets the ship to self-destruct. The humans escape in the Gotengo moments before the mothership explodes. Godzilla and Monster X continue their battle but Monster X transforms into its true form, Keizer Ghidorah. Keizer Ghidorah initially gets the upper-hand but Godzilla emerges victorious in the end. Minilla shows up at the scene and convinces Godzilla not to destroy the Gotengo. The survivors watch Godzilla and Minilla return to the ocean.