The Incredibles is a 2004 American computer-animated superhero film written and directed by Brad Bird, produced by Pixar Animation Studios, and released by Walt Disney Pictures. The film follows a family of superheroes who are forced to hide their powers and live a quiet suburban life. Mr. Incredible's desire to help people draws the entire family into a battle with his longtime enemy—Syndrome, who was once his fan and now plots to wipe out every single superhuman being on Earth with his killer robot.Public opinion turns against humans with superpowers – also called "Supers" – due to collateral damage from their crime-fighting activities. After several lawsuits, they are forced into civilian relocation programs. Fifteen years later, Bob and Helen Parr, formerly known as Mr. Incredible and Elastigirl, and their children Violet, Dash, and Jack-Jack live as a suburban family. Bob dislikes with suburban life and his white-collar job. Sometimes, Bob and his old friend Lucius Best – formerly known as Frozone – relive their glory days by secretly acting as vigilantes at night.One day, Bob loses his temper – and his job – after his supervisor refuses to let him stop a mugging. Returning home, Bob finds a message from a mysterious woman named Mirage, who convinces him to become Mr. Incredible again and gives him a mission to destroy a savage tripod-like robot called the Omnidroid on the remote island of Nomanisan. Bob is able to find and destroy the Omnidroid by tricking it into ripping out its own power source.Bob finds the action (and higher pay) rejuvenating; he begins rigorous training while waiting for more work from Mirage. Discovering a tear in his suit, he visits superhero costume designer Edna Mode. Assuming that Helen knows what Bob is doing, she decides to make new suits for him and his whole family. She insists on not including capes, which she says are dangerous to the wearer. Leaving for Nomanisan once again, Bob discovers that Mirage is working for Buddy Pine, a disaffected former super-fan whom Mr. Incredible had rejected. Having adopted the name Syndrome, he has been perfecting the Omnidroid by hiring different Supers to fight it. Some were killed and others won, and when that happened he improved the machine. Now he means to kill Bob, then send the machine to a city where he will secretly manipulate its controls to defeat it in public, becoming a hero himself. Later, he will sell his inventions so everyone will become equally "super", making the term meaningless.Meanwhile, Helen visits Edna and learns what Bob has been up to. Edna activates a beacon she built into the suits so Helen can find Bob, inadvertently causing him to be discovered and captured. Helen borrows a private plane to head for Nomanisan, but Violet and Dash have stowed away wearing their own suits, leaving Jack-Jack with a babysitter. Syndrome shoots down Helen's plane, but she and the kids survive and reach the island. Bob threatens to kill Mirage so Syndrome would release him, but Syndrome calls his bluff and Bob releases Mirage.Helen proceeds to the base, discovering Syndrome's intentions to send the Omnidroid to Metroville in a rocket. Distraught by Syndrome's callousness when her life was threatened, Mirage releases Bob and tells him his family is alive. Helen arrives and races off with Bob to find their children. Dash and Violet are spotted and chased by a number of Syndrome's guards, but manage to fend them off with their powers before reuniting with their parents. Just then, Syndrome captures the family, then heads off to initiate his plan.The Parrs escape and use a spare rocket to travel to Metroville. True to its programming, the Omnidroid recognizes Syndrome as an opponent and attacks the remote on his wrist, making him incapable of controlling it. The Parrs and Frozone team up to fight the robot in a losing battle until Bob comes across the remote. They use it to destroy the robot with its own rocket-powered pincer that fell off earlier in the battle. Returning home, the Parrs find Syndrome, who plans to kidnap and raise Jack-Jack as his own sidekick to exact revenge on the family. As Syndrome tries to escape to his airplane, Jack-Jack's own shapeshifting superpowers start to manifest, and he escapes Syndrome's grasp. Bob and Helen use their powers together to rescue Jack-Jack; Bob throws his car at Syndrome's plane, causing Syndrome to be sucked into the jet's turbine by his own cape and subsequently causes the jet to explode.Three months later, the Parrs witness the arrival of a new villain called the Underminer. They don their superhero masks, ready to face a new threat.